The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Xolisa Dyeshana named one
of AdWeek’s Creative 100 Xolisa
Dyeshana, chief creative officer at Joe Public Johannesburg, has achieved global recognition as one of
the top international agency leaders in the prestigious AdWeek Creative 100 list for 2021. Now
in its seventh year, AdWeek’s
Creative 100 is an annual celebration of today’s most fascinating and enviable
creative professionals, ranging from influential icons to emerging game
changers. According
to the US-based brand marketing publication, Dyeshana is one 15 creative
leaders from all over the world who are reshaping the industry through their
work to bring a user-centric approach to advertising and break down the
barriers between media and creativity. “These
global agency leaders didn’t just execute new ideas; they weren’t afraid to
push the envelope or in some cases, get downright strange. That eccentricity is
what made their work unforgettable, and the marketing landscape is all the
better for it,” said Stephen Lepitak, AdWeek’s
Europe bureau chief. “AdWeek is a household name for marketers, and I am profoundly humbled to be named on such a prestigious list. It gives me great pleasure to represent South Africa in these very competitive global rankings. It is testament to the creative excellence that exists here in the country. Thank you to my Joe Public United family – the place I have called home for the past 15 years. This recognition would not have been possible without them. Thank you to all our incredible clients as well, who continually trust us with their precious brands as we endeavour to grow their brands,” Dyeshana said. The
full list of honourees can be found here. People moves TV presenter and radio personality LootLove is new host of Apple Music 1’s Africa Now Radio South African
TV presenter and radio personality Luthando Shosha, aka LootLove, is taking
over as new host of Africa Now
Radio on Apple Music 1, beginning Sunday, 13 June. Africa Now Radio, Apple Music
radio’s first global African music radio show, recently celebrated its one-year
anniversary. “I am
beyond elated to host Africa Now Radio,” said LootLove. “This is a big moment
for the universal language that is music. A moment that continues to shine a
light on our continent, my home country  — South Africa — and on all
the magical talent we have. I am looking forward to seeing more, experiencing
more and learning more through the beauty of Africa’s music. From the Cape to
Cairo and to the rest of the world.” Stefaans Brümmer leaving amaBhungane after 11 years Joint
managing partner of amaBhungane, Stefaans Brümmer, will be leaving amaB after
11 years at the helm with partner, Sam Sole. To ensure a
smooth transition, Brümmer is serving a two-month notice period, although he
should have handed over most of his daily responsibilities by the end of June. He
intends embarking on a long-planned travel experience with his family in July. Brümmer’s
decision was taken after introspection about his career and the futureproofing
of amaB. A change in
leadership often presents risk. But amaB is better shielded from it than most
start-ups at this point, amaB said in a press release. Sole remains at the helm
as managing partner, supported by team members across the editorial, digital,
advocacy and operating portfolios. The current recruitment pipeline may
also be reshaped to ensure any lacunae are filled. Egg Films announces new partners, Lebogang Rasethaba & Zwelethu
Radebe Egg Films has boosted its
leadership firepower with director Zwelethu Radebe and director and Arcade
co-owner Lebogang Rasethaba joining long-standing colleague, executive producer
Colin Howard, as the ‘nest’s’ main shareholders and partners. The move comes
after director Sunu stepped down as partner to focus on his longform. Founded over 21 years
ago, Egg Films is one of the most established and respected production
companies in the industry. Rasethaba and Howard launched Arcade, the sibling
production company, nine years ago in 2012. The duo view the new Egg
Films partnership as the extension of their current working relationship, and
have brought in Radebe to complete the partnership. The new leadership team
intends build on Egg Film’s already high level of craftsmanship while creating
culturally relevant commercials, documentaries, short films and music videos
for the local market. Egg Films will continue
to be a majority Black-owned level 2 contributor to B-BBEE. With offices in
Johannesburg and Cape Town, it represents a strong roster of South African
directors. Zanele Ntulini appointed FMI’s new CMO Life insurer, FMI
(a Division of Bidvest Life Ltd), recently announced the appointment of Zanele
Ntulini as its chief marketing officer. “We’re excited to
have Zanele join the FMI executive leadership team where she will contribute to
the company’s continued focus on innovation, growth and transformation,” said
Neil Wolno, FMI acting CEO. “As a brand and communications leader, she brings a
wealth of knowledge and experience to the table. I am confident that she will
elevate our brand and take FMI to greater heights.” Ntulini is a
strategic marketing and advertising executive with 19 years’ experience in
building strong brands, and developing and implementing marketing strategies
that translate into effective integrated marketing communication solutions. She holds an
impressive track record, having held various roles in the marketing departments
of Liberty, Old Mutual, Discovery Health and Hollard. She has agency and
consulting experience, having co-owned a through-the-line advertising and
design agency in the Western Cape and serving as Managing Director at
Collective ID. Reed Exhibitions Africa
welcomes new events director to FAME Reed Exhibitions Africa has
welcomed Judith (Judy) Goddard as the new event director of FAME Week Africa
taking place in the host city of Cape Town from 12 – 14 September 2021. Founder and director of
creative events agency Masiwela, Goddard has a passion for events, people and
working on creative, collaborative projects. Combined with her Swiss Education
Group Alumni from the Swiss Hotel Management School graduating class of 2008
and her involvement in key industry events such as the kykNET Fiestas, The
Johannesburg Film Festival, The Ghoemas, Dancing with the Stars, The Bachelor
South Africa, The Bachelorette South Africa to name a few, she is ready to meet
the magnificent highs of FAME. She said: “It is an
incredible privilege to join the RXSA team; they are a big thinking, action
orientated and dynamic team of people who are leading the trajectory of
business events in Africa.” ProfitShare Partners
appoints one of SA’s top CA’s as CFO ProfitShare Partners has
welcomed Michael Kransdorff to the team as its chief financial officer (CFO)
from 1 June 2021. Kransdorff’s was one of the
top chartered accountants of his year also and was also awarded his Master’s in
Tax from Wits. His global experience has also includes a Master’s degree from
Harvard University, specialising in Economic Development, International Finance
and Political Analysis. Previously a senior banker
at one of the largest banks on the African continent, Kransdorff worked in a
specialist unit charged with sourcing the next billion rand business for the
bank. Mbaya to head INMA Africa Division Doreen Mbaya has recently been
appointed to head up the International
News Media Association (INMA) Africa Division. Mbaya, a media veteran out of Kenya, is part of INMA’s focus on Africa. We aim to ensure that the innovation our continent embraces is showcased within INMA’s global media community. Business moves Tractor
Outdoor expands its Cape Town network with more RSD sites Tractor Outdoor is
expanding its roadside presence with an additional three Roadside Digital (RSD)
sites, which will take the media owner’s nationwide RSD network to 23 screens –
one of the largest in the country. Ben Harris, managing
director and head of rights and development at Tractor Outdoor, said the
growing interest in DOOH has necessitated the media owner expanding its RSD
footprint, increasing its capacity to meet the rising demand. “The dynamic
nature of RSD integrates the latest programmatic technology, allowing the
advertiser to update the artwork in real-time, in line with the needs of the
campaign,” Harris explained. The new sites will be based
in Cape Town – a prime market for Tractor, and an area that Harris believes has
not yet unlocked its full potential. “There are far more sites in Johannesburg
than any other province in the country, and so our current focus is on
expanding our presence in the Mother City – which will also be one of the first
areas to benefit from the return in tourism. “Our knowledge of Cape
Town’s signage bylaws have afforded us the opportunity to build one of the
largest third party digital sites in the country, and the first double-sided
portrait digital screen on the city’s iconic Marine drive.” Harris said Tractor also
has another 14 RSD sites earmarked for Cape Town, and it plans on adding more
sites to its network across various other provinces over the coming months, as
well as pivotal arterial routes which it has not previously covered. The media owner has also
just concluded signage rights with Sasol Forecourts, expanding its nationwide
outdoor footprint through an additional 100 digital screens. This move will
take the media owner’s total digital inventory count to 222 screens, meaning
that advertisers can now also benefit from having access to the largest digital
network in South Africa. Daily Maverick and Absa tackle climate crisis with the launch of Our Burning Planet partnership Daily Maverickhas launched a partnership
with Absato make the risks of the
global climate crisis a bigger focus of everyday life – with practical
approaches on how to address them. Spurred by the threat of Day Zero – when it was forecast Cape Town would run out of potable water – Daily Maverick decided to tackle the climate crisis head-on. What was originally intended to be an intermittent series called Our Burning Planet has become a fully-fledged unit in the Daily Maverick editorial team, concentrating on the catastrophes that happen when bad governance and climate change collide. From travelling to rural areas to see how weather changes have transformed food production and livelihoods, to speaking to scientists and uncovering corrupt business deals that threaten healthy ecosystems, the path was clear: help South Africans understand that we are in a climate crisis, how it affects them and how we can address the key risks for the region. Already achieving massive impact with its investigations and reporting, the Daily Maverick team has received support from Absa, who have helped fund independent research into the key climate risks for the SADC region in 2020. The relationship with Absa has grown into greater support of the Our Burning Planet effort through an annual sponsorship and grant funding. “The Covid-19 pandemic has reminded us that global challenges require
global coordination and brave action. At Absa we recognise Africa’s
vulnerability to climate change, and together with like-minded media partners
such as Daily Maverickand
their team of dedicated journalists, we hope to stimulate public debate, shift
policy and contribute to creating sustainable and value-creating solutions to
some of Africa’s greatest environmental challenges,” said David Wingfield, head
of brand at Absa Group. “We’re excited that our vision for reporting on the climate crisis aligns with Absa’s strategic focus. We’ll be able to invest more into our already impactful editorial efforts and help showcase Absa’s support for the cause,” added Daily Maverick CEO Styli Charalambous. FoxP2 increases BEE ownership to 51% In a positive step forward
for transformation in the South African advertising industry, FoxP2 has
increased its recognised black ownership from 45% to 51% through an investment
in the agency by the Vumela Fund, established by FNB Business and Edge
Growth. FoxP2 was founded in Cape
Town late in 2005 and opened a Johannesburg office in 2013. Its initial 45%
BBBEE-ownership was achieved through its 2018 deal with Japanese international
marketing, advertising and public relations company dentsu. This left the agency with
three sets of shareholders: dentsu, a dentsu-backed Employee Staff Ownership
Programme (ESOP) and the FoxP2 partners Charl Thom, Grant Jacobsen, Justin
Gomes and Andrew Whitehouse. The ESOP took the form of a BBBEE employee share
trust structure across the dentsu South African group of companies,
beneficiaries for which are selected from the entire dentsu SA group. The current deal, in which
the Vumela Fund has acquired a 10% private shareholding, effectively places 51%
of FoxP2 in the hands of black owners. FreshStop joins Survivor
South Africa: Immunity Island as key sponsor FreshStop at Caltex,
South Africa’s fast-growing convenience retail brand, has signed up as a key
sponsor for this year’s Survivor South Africa season that kicked off last week.
For the first time in eight seasons, 20 castaways from across South Africa are
competing to be the ‘Sole Survivor’ on South African soil. FreshStop, joins
well-known brands such as Mahindra, Cape Union Mart, OUTsurance and the Wild
Coast Sun, as key sponsors of this season. GinjaNinjaPR launches a digital service offering as demand for social media service increases GinjaNinjaPR, an 18-year
old SME focused communications agency, has launched a bespoke social media
service aimed at improving businesses’ use of digital tools, while also
introducing it to those who currently don’t have a plan in place to engage
digitally. Owner and MD, Samantha Hogg, said including a digital offering was
an organic process as clients started to recognise the importance of social
media within a broader communications strategy. “Launching a social media
offering was a natural extension for GinjaNinjaPR. We develop and manage the
majority of the external communications for clients, so extending this to
social media was pretty logical. For years, I have had a love-hate relationship
with social media, believing intrinsically that it was a tool of PR and not an
alternative. It seems that the market is finally coming around to the same
opinion, which is when I knew that it was a great opportunity to add more value
to my clients, while also having another carrot for my new business drive,” said
Hogg. Oxigen
Communications announces new business growth Oxigen Communications, an
integrated, turnkey marketing agency, has announced the addition of five new
contracts to its stable of clients in technology, B2B, communications, mining,
and event & sponsorship in the past three months. Notable
client wins include the SPAR Virtual Women’s Challenge 2021, Digicall Group,
and Sigma, Nova and the 6th year renewal of its agreement with
TLT-Turbo GmbH. This announcement was made just two months after Oxigen
revealed new client wins in the healthcare and virtual learning space at the
end of 2020. The momentum comes amid tough market conditions as South Africa
continues to grapple with the on-going Covid-19 lockdown and the residual
economic challenges that the country was faced with in 2020. Oxigen’s
business-to-business division is leading the agency’s growth having recently
signed agreements with Digicall, Sigma and Nova – all specialists in business
processes, communications technology and human capital services. TLT-Turbo
GmbH, a long standing Oxigen client renewed their contract bringing the track
history with this client to six years from first signing an agreement with
their South African branch. Okayplayer & Google News Initiative announce
The Byline Project Okaymedia and its news and
culture site, Okayplayer,
have announced the launch of an exciting new pilot programme called The Byline
Project in collaboration with Google and the Google News Initiative. Designed to empower local
journalists, investigative journalism, and underserved communities, The Byline
Project allows individual journalists and under-resourced newsrooms to easily
manage and collaborate with freelance contributors, and in turn tell more local
stories. Developed as open-sourced technology by Okayplayer, the software also
includes a simple and accessible way for readers to directly support local
journalists and newsrooms through a digital/ crypto ‘tipping’ functionality.
Okayplayer is implementing The Byline Project” technology on an eponymous
section of the website and has unveiled a short video introducing the project. Kryolan Professional Make-Up appoints The Lime Envelope The Lime Envelope, a Johannesburg-based public relations agency servicing national and international brands, has secured professional makeup company Kryolan Professional Make-Up as a client and is poised to implement a year-long campaign with the brand. “Kryolan Professional Make-Up in a
small way, wants to give back to athletes and provide them with a brand that
truly understands and supports them, values their career, and caters to them –
on and off the field! We are proud to be the first company and country to have
thought of such a concept and cannot wait to bring it to life. We greatly
appreciate having both The Lime Envelope and SASCOC on
board to assist us in making our vision a reality. Watch this space for the
announcement!” said MD Neil Wilkinson. [See snippet in Making Moves
below.] Google launches
programmes to support continent’s small retail businesses Google has kicked off a
series of programmes, rolling out throughout the month of June, which will not
only support the growth and recovery of small and medium-sized businesses
(SMBs) in Africa’s post-Covid economy but will help them thrive. Mojolaoluwa
Aderemi-Makinde, Google’s head of brand and reputation for Africa, said: “As
more consumers start their journey looking for products and services online, we
want to do more to help retail small businesses digitise and better leverage
online tools for growth. One thing we know for sure is that when small
businesses recover, African economies rebound and do well and this benefits
everyone”. Activities planned by
Google for International Small Business Month include: Cellucity partners with
Pargo to connect South Africans Delivery in South Africa
is not easy. Many South Africans live in outlying areas where there isn’t a
well-developed infrastructure in place to get online orders to customers in a
way that is both convenient and affordable. For this reason,
Cellucity partnered with smart logistics company Pargo whose innovative pickup
point network extends far across South Africa. Lesa Jackson, ecommerce sales manager
at Cellucity, explains: “Though Cellucity has many brick and mortar stores, the
majority are found in large cities. Historically it’s been challenging to get
our products in the hands of customers who live in outlying areas where we have
no physical presence.” Pargo recently reported
that their network of pickup points has grown to over 3000
and plan to continue with this growth further into 2021. Corona becomes first global beverage brand to
achieve a net zero plastic footprint globally Corona has become
the first global beverage brand with a net zero plastic footprint, meaning the
brand recovers more plastic from the environment than it releases into the
world. This achievement is part of Corona’s vision to be a sustainability
leader in consumer packaged goods and is the latest in the brand’s longtime
efforts to help protect the world’s oceans and beaches from marine plastic
pollution. Achieving this
milestone comes after an extensive external assessment of Corona’s global
operations against the 3RI
Corporate Plastic Stewardship Guidelines by South Pole, a leading climate solutions
provider. Thanks to these mitigation efforts, Corona now recovers more plastic
than its plastic footprint. “As a brand born
at the beach and deeply connected with nature, Corona has a responsibility to
do all it can to be an ally to our environment and our oceans. Becoming the
first global beverage brand with a net zero plastic footprint is the latest in
Corona’s broader ambition to help protect the world’s oceans and beaches from
plastic pollution,” said Marsha Kumire, Global Brands Director Africa. In addition,
Corona has created Plastic Reality,
an innovative augmented reality experience that allows people to see their
annual plastic footprint in their own home. NorthVCA Joins Global Network In celebration of seven
years of creative excellence, brand design consultancy North has been named the
26th company to join By The Network, a burgeoning community of
independent creative agencies from around the globe. With offices in Cape
Town and Amsterdam, North was chosen to represent the Sub-Saharan region of the
continent and is the only African-based representative in the global mix of
top-notch independent agencies. The global network was
founded by creative leader Per Pedersen who spent over 25 years working in the
Grey Group, most recently as Global Creative Chairman of Grey Worldwide. By The
Network have dismissed the dated corporate structures of the past and formed a
global dream-team of highly awarded independent agencies and world class
creatives, offering a new breed of curated creative and strategic talent. Since
its inception in October 2020, the network has been selected to lead global
work for Snap, Netflix and Carlsberg to name a few. A new digital face of
PR winning in tech space Three-years ago Hook, Line
& Sinker (HLS) was born with a simple formula to combine marketing,
publicity, content, and social media, to breathe life back into the PR game.
And then the pandemic happened. Many companies and global stock markets
struggled for growth, but for some it was about seizing the moment. What was
seen as a business threat quickly turned into a business opportunity, and the
recipe of tech clients – Covid-disruption – paired with digital agency support,
saw HLS revenue quadruple as its business reached into Africa, Europe, and the
Middle East, while forming partnerships with global giants such IBM, Microsoft,
Google, Facebook, and United Nations. The key to success? The
rapid growth of their tech clients combined with their multifaceted digital
offerings. “Times are changing, and so too is the era of the press release and
red-carpet events,” said HLS Head Honcho, Adam Hunter. “The print media has been
challenged for many years. This, combined with Covid-19, has seen media houses
close and publications disappear, and has resulted in one journalist for every
10 PR professionals – making it extremely competitive for brands to be seen and
heard.” Hunter oversees the HLS
team that now supports 16 different market units across the globe and
specialises in business-to-business (B2B) tech clients and global start-ups. The agency’s client list
includes companies such as SAP, Skynamo, RoomRaccoon, Mobiz and UK’s CoGrammar,
trading as HyperionDev in SA – all heavyweights and innovators in their spaces,
and all leveraging HLS’ unique approach to ensure highly visible penetration
into competitive markets. Making moves Kryolan: inspiring women
in sport International professional make-up brand, Kryolan, is launching a nationwide search for70-100 professional women in sport in an effort to support those who are often not considered for sponsorships. The sponsorship drive will provide opportunities for female athletes to increase brand visibility and show support for our South African sportswomen. Kryolan is widely
recognised as a leader in stage, theatre and film make up, but has also gained
good traction as a leading manufacturer of traditional cosmetics for day-to-day
use. In recognising women in
sport, Kryolan is partnering with South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee
(SASCOC) to identify the athletes and to drive greater awareness of
female sporting achievers, with a focus on the inspiration they provide to
their fans and followers. Neil Wilkinson, MD at
Kryolan South Africa, said, “The main focus of our partnership with female
sports achievers is to empower them to inspire and to change perceptions around
women’s highly influential standing in sports achievement. Traditionally, male
sportspeople receive the lion’s share of attention. We would like to showcase
the fact that women are equally as influential and important in sport. “Looking and feeling good is a great source of confidence for anyone – male or female. And in providing a product that allows these women to achieve the ultimate comfort with who they are, we hope that we can inspire other women to feel empowered”. Precious cargo in transit Look
out for a new slogan on a bum near you this September, as the Daredevil
challenge asks for the smartest newest campaign
punchlines. With the annual Hollard
Daredevil Run being postponed until September, what better way to keep men’s
cancer awareness top of mind than by hosting a digital competition to come up
with the catchiest and cleverest new campaign slogan. Hundreds of witty suggestions were submitted during the two-week campaign, each vying for the prize of a brand-new iPhone 12 and for their slogan to be selected to adorn those renowned purple speedos. This digital campaign secured a reach in excess of 2 744 000 and engagements of over 65 000. Eight finalists were chosen, and the public were asked to vote for their best Daredevil slogan, with the catchphrase ‘Precious Cargo in Transit’ being the hands down favourite. “With this
campaign, we continue to urge the men in our lives to show their precious cargo
some love. Look out for this, and other versions of real poetry in motion when speedo-clad runners participate in the annual
Daredevil run through the streets of Johannesburg again in September,” says Heidi Brauer, chief marketing officer at
Hollard. Be first in line when entries open and get more information by following Daredevil Run on Facebook. ZIZI Digital launches #Zizi4Youth Zizi Digital has revealed a new Campaign, #Zizi4Youth. It is a unique opportunity for South African based youth-owned start-ups to win R5000 in cash to use on their business. Following
recent statistics showcasing that the official unemployment rate in South
Africa has reached a record high of 32.6% Zizi Digital encourages youth to
explore self-employment opportunities in effort to combat this. “As a black, female, start-up owner, I believe that this is the prime
opportunity to create your own employment. I believe that the youth of today
hold the key to our nation’s future and success,” said Nombulelo Nana Malinga,
founder and director of Zizi Digital.

Youth-owned start-ups are called to enter through the official Zizi Digital social
media platforms Facebook,
Instagram, LinkedIn
and Twitter. There, users will find more information and a chance to spread awareness as well as enter to help support the movement. Rogerwilco announces 2021
Township Marketing Report & Webinar Rogerwilco, winner of the FM AdFocus Small Agency of the Year 2020, is releasing its first-ever Township Marketing Report during an online webinar on Tuesday 22 June from 8am – 12pm. The study was undertaken
by Rogerwilco, market research company Survey54 and Marketing Mix Conferences
and aims to equip today’s marketers with actionable insights from over 1 000
individuals living in townships across South Africa. “Almost half of South Africa’s
urban population lives in townships and informal settlements, yet very little
data exists for marketers to speak to the needs and wants of this substantial
audience that represents hundreds of billions of rands in aggregate,” said
Rogerwilco CEO Charlie Stewart. “The 2021 Township Marketing Report aims to
partially plug this gap.” The webinar will cover
topics such as ‘Life. Covid. Money.
Digital and everything else – a Hitchhiker’s Guide to the New Normal in SA’s
Emerging Market’ presented by Jack Hlongwane, business development
manager at Kantar; ‘Home deliveries
are dynamic; how about online retail’ by Jessica Boonstra, CEO &
founder of YEBO Fresh; ‘Cash is king,
but the trend to non-cash options is irreversible’ by Nkululeko Mvulana,
director business development, Kazang Connect and ‘The vicious cycle of an economic downturn – Traditional Trade
strategies for the new normal’ by Jacqui Le Sar, MD, Inperspective. Potential delegates can
sign up for the webinar here at a cost of just R2 000.00 ex-VAT which
includes a copy of the 2021 Township Marketing Report. Power
Brands get on board with The 67 Logos Designathon Now in its fourth year, the 67 Logos Designathon sees welcome additions to the initiative, making for an even more powerful impact for participating entrepreneurs. This year Over The Rainbow has partnered with iLearn and Retail Capital to offer a Hosted Learnership Solution. This learnership empowers and equips black-owned businesses with the skills and knowledge needed to create wealth in the global economy and build sustainable and thriving businesses. “Our
team is extremely excited about this unique opportunity and the shared value
that this project will create for black entrepreneurs in South Africa this
Mandela Day. Our ultimate goal is to empower the successful entrepreneurs by
providing them with the necessary skills to develop sustainable businesses,
allowing them to become more economically active,” said Richard Rayne,
Managing Director at iLearn. The
successful learnership entrepreneurs sourced from Retail Capital’s network – who
will automatically be part of the 67
Logos Designathon– will write a SETA accredited FETC: New
Venture Creation NQF 4 qualification, facilitated by iLearn. This is a 12-month
SETA accredited learnership qualification designed to provide entrepreneurs
with the formal academic knowledge and skills needed to run small to medium
business ventures. “In
addition, the contribution of creatives in terms of their time and design
abilities are crucial to the success of the initiative and CWDi will
be contributing to this year’s Designathon by committing logos towards the
campaign, with Creative Consultant Ahmed Tilly doing his part by reaching out
to designers in his extensive network to participate and support. As a result,
45 designers have signed up already, and we’d like to challenge other agencies
and creatives to get on board and do the same,” said Lesley Waterkeyn, the
brainchild behind the 67 Logos
Designathon, as well as the Founder and Executive Director at Over The
Rainbow. ISPA celebrates its
quarter century The Internet Service
Providers’ Association of SA (ISPA) this month celebrates 25 years of being a
force for positive change in South Africa’s ICT (Information and Communications
Technology) sector. ISPA has spent a
quarter century shaping and influencing ICT policy for the better; investing in
people and communities; and leveling the telecoms playing field to the
advantage of its nearly 200 members, consumers and the economy. Much of ISPA’s early
activities were focused on preventing Telkom from using its monopoly position
to unfairly compete against the country’s fledgling Internet access providers.
ISPA’s steadfast efforts eventually resulted in Competition Commission rulings
that resulted in the split of Telkom’s wholesale and retail activities. Today, Openserve
provides services equally to Telkom’s retail division and to other ISP
(Internet Service Providers). It is fitting then that ISPA is now able to
welcome Openserve as its newest member. Openserve joins Liquid Intelligent
Technologies and Seacom as ISPA’s three Backbone members who quite literally
operate the backbones of the nation’s Internet infrastructure. YouTube Music expands commitment to black music through the #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund YouTube Music is
deepening investments in black communitiesby opening applications to
the #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund Class of 2022, aimed at enabling Black artists to
commercialise their work. Grant applications for
the #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund Class of 2022 will open on 21 June 2021.
Eligibility has been expanded to include songwriters and producers, allowing black
artists residing in Kenya, South Africa, Nigeria, Canada and the UK, in
addition to the U.S., Brazil and Australia, to apply. YouTube Music is also
launching a new partnership with renowned music education institution, 1500 Sound
Academy, founded by GRAMMY-award winning songwriters and producers,
James Fauntleroy and Larrance ‘Rance’ Dopson. Through the inaugural
#YouTubeBlack Music Future Insiders Scholarship, YouTube will fund ten full
ride scholarships to the Academy’s Live Online 1500 Music & Industry
Fundamentals programme. “The YouTube Music team
is excited to expand the #YouTubeBlack Voices Fund and create new opportunities
while also reflecting on the progress made to date,” said Alex Okosi, YouTube’s
EMEA managing director for emerging markets. “The six-month scholarship term
will see recipients undertake courses in music production, engineering,
songwriting, mixing, music business and much more.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.