The MOST Awards
perfectly illustrates the importance of relationships, collaborative
partnerships and effective communication. It highlights the media owners who are invested
in media agencies and who are at the forefront of fostering and building great
relationships. The Awards certainly produce a heightened
awareness of the competencies and efficiencies in which both media owners and agencies
manage their business. It means that a level of accountability has permeated
the industry, holding us equally responsible by our peers to award performance
and rate services. For media owners it’s not just about
providing media space at a competitive price, it is about digging deeper, engaging
with the brand custodians and understanding the marketing objectives. It really
is all about the communication between the agency and media owner! The MOST Awards serve as a reminder to both media
owners and agencies that we are encouraged to continuously work on establishing
and strengthening relationships. We remain vigilant of the individual roles we
play, and collectively have an obligation to fulfil the client’s objectives and
at the same time keep the media and advertising industry a thriving entity. Our industry has certainly not been without its challenges and adapting to changing working circumstances during Covid-19 has been just one example. We were fortunate that The MediaShop swiftly encouraged changed behaviour to ensure we continued to regularly engage with our media partners. It is incumbent upon us to ensure that we don’t have any erosion in the quality of our relationships, no matter the circumstances. Although it was challenging to adapt to the
‘new norm’ and find balance at the beginning of the pandemic, which we have
successfully achieved, relationships have certainly become more meaningful. Of
course, the rapid implementation of virtual ‘one on one’ in-camera meetings
eased the anxiety of managing the human aspect of the corporate world. Ironically there are media owners who have engaged
with us more during Covid, thus shifting and shaping the future rules of
engagement. The old adage of ‘out of sight out of mind’ has propelled us to become
more ‘present’. Media Owners have been phenomenal in embracing the challenge of
being ‘seen and heard’ in the virtual space and us in the agency thank you for
the proactivity. The MediaShop is extremely proud to be a regular
sponsor and partner of The MOST Awards because we truly believe that relationships
are key to the success of anyindustry. We pride ourselves on maintaining and sustaining trustworthy media owner
/ agency relationships which ultimately results in effective collaboration and
outcomes. While media owners are the custodians of their respective platforms, we rely on these partnerships to keep us abreast of trends and behaviour, to provide us with creative innovative proposals aligned to the brief and brand to ensure strategic objectives are met accurately and timeously. The pandemic certainly created a vacuum in terms of the way media owners
and media agencies could interact. 
Suddenly regular interactions like lunches, dinners and events were gone
and we needed to find an alternative manner in which to interact. Most media owners
did this well and remained top of mind in their agency partnerships for their
strategic alignment.  As agencies, we
levelled up and implemented efficiencies to engage, however, no doubt our
industry attracts people-centric individuals, therefore we will revert to the
pre-pandemic interactions as soon as we can. In this industry of ours, human connection is
paramount for improving relationships. There is great value in physical one on one presence to sustain this. If anything, Covid has highlighted the importance of life and personal
human interaction. However, virtual meetings have forced us to
adapt and on the plus side, has certainly decreased the stress of travel and
being stuck in traffic! Virtual check-ins with media
owners have proven to be effective and convenient as has the facilitation of cross border and
inter-country meetings and webinars. Unlimited guests and staff are hosted via
the platforms, where we endeavour to ‘keep our cameras/videos on’ for the face-to-face
communication. It’s safe to assume that as we navigate into
the future, a balanced mix of the two will be the way forward. One thing
remains abundantly clear though, the media agency and owner dynamic is more
important than ever before, and the MOST Awards is excellent at keeping the
spotlight on the importance of that bond. We wish all entrants good luck! The MediaShop is a proud sponsor of the 2021 MOST Awards. Bonita Bachmann Managing Director: The MediaShop – Cape Town Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.