A row has erupted between the SABC and SuperSport over the rights to broadcast the much-anticipated inbound British and Irish Lions rugby tour. In a strongly worded statement, the public broadcaster said it had rejected an offer from SuperSport to broadcast the Lions Tour on its licenced broadcasting services, as well as the terms and conditions it had accepted when sub-licensing content of other sporting codes from SuperSport. As a result, viewers would not be able to watch the matches. At the heart of the issue
is that the broadcasts would be limited to SABC 1, 2 and 3 and would exclude flighting
on its other platforms such as Openview and via mobile and OTT services
including the SABC’s online sports offering. The SABC recently signed a signal distribution channel carriage and
content agreement with eMedia Investments (e.tv, eNCA and Openview). The first channel launched was the SABC Sport Channel which is
distributed simultaneously across Openview, DTT, Telkom One and other streaming
platforms. Asked whether there was a
loophole in the Icasa sports broadcasting regulations that defines ‘terrestrial’ free-to-air (FTA) broadcasts’ as
opposed to the encompassing term, ‘free-to-air’ broadcasts, SABC Sport general
manager Gary Rathbone said there was no such divide. “Icasa is
quite clear on this as it defines the difference between DStv and the SABC. The
distinction is based on ‘free-to-air service and a subscription broadcast service
(SBS),” he explained. “The
regulator does not create a further divide in the term FTA broadcasting by
differentiating ‘terrestrial FTA’ and ‘Digital/DTH’ broadcasting, except where
such terminology is used in a technical sense. So there’s no ‘loophole’.
SuperSport have decided unilaterally to insert this clause based entirely on
their own interests, and to protect their own market position at the expense of
both the SABC and SA Rugby’s interests,” he added. SuperSport
sees it differently. Asked to comment on the SABC’s accusations, SuperSport
told The Media Online: “The SABC has rejected the
offer made by SuperSport to broadcast the Lions Tour on their licensed
broadcasting services. The SABC now rejects terms and conditions, which it
accepted when sub-licensing content of other sporting codes from
SuperSport. This rejection deprives its viewers of watching the Lions Tour,” a
spokesperson said. The Media
Online asked Rathbone if this was the first time SABC Sport has requested
free-to-air broadcast rights of mandated sports events since signing the deal
with eMedia’s Openview and other OTT services. “From SuperSport, yes,” he responded. “However, in
our negotiations with Cricket SA, this kind of clause has never been inserted
or considered, which again proves that this has been included solely in
SuperSport’s interest.” Rathbone said SuperSport had already included a
similar clause in the current PSL deal done in 2019. “It seems they thought
they got away with it last time; they could pull the same move again. But the
difference is that in this instance, they have now specified the new SABC Sport
Channel as being excluded from carrying these rights as well, so they
definitely see that as threat they are keen to undermine,” he said. The SABC, in its original
statement, said it was their view that
attempting to place sub-licensing limitations on which platforms SABC can
broadcast or stream content is “anti-competitive and directly undermines the
public broadcaster’s mandate to provide free access to national sporting events
to all South Africans”. SuperSport disagrees. “MultiChoice
does not believe that a term of the offer precluding SABC making the content
available to third parties, with whom the SABC has concluded commercial
agreements, is anti-competitive. It would undermine the value of MultiChoice’s
investment in acquiring the rights,” it said. Rathbone, however, accused SuperSport of “unilaterally” inserting the clause “based
entirely on their own interests, and to protect their own market position at
the expense of both the SABC and SA Rugby’s interests”. Read more: Sport
a big winner in new SABC/Openview free-to-air TV agreement Access to international
sporting events is vital to the SABC’s future sustainability. It has been
playing catch-up in terms of digital platforms, signing agreements with other
broadcasters – such as e.tv and streaming platform VIU – to expand its reach
without incurring exorbitant set-up costs. As Rathbone said, all SABC
channels will be dependent on simultaneous distribution via several platforms,
once all the analogue transmitters are finally switched off next year. “This is the nature of the media environment evolution into
the future. But while we are waiting to develop a ‘critical mass point’ for the
Sport Channel in terms of audience and revenue, platforms like Openview and Telkom
ONE give us an opportunity to start building our presence in the market and
raising awareness of it with viewers and advertisers,” he said. “So having major events like Springbok Rugby on our channel,
on the platforms where it is accessible right now, will make a significant
impact on increasing that presence and awareness noted above. So it’s [SuperSport]
clearly a strategy aimed at stifling our growth in that regard.” In the meantime, the public
broadcaster is challenging Icasa, making oral and written submissions on sports
regulations. It has argued: 1.       There should be a
regulatory framework for sublicensing of rights to avoid abuse of power by
rights holders 2.       There should be
transparency in the sublicensing of rights 3.       There should be
unbundling of rights for FTA broadcasters and pay TV so that there is no winner
takes all and FTA broadcasters are unable to access the national sporting
events 4.       Rights should be
granted to broadcasters with platforms to broadcast them. For example no TV broadcaster
without radio platform should acquire radio rights. 5.       There should be
dispute resolution mechanisms Asked whether it would take action against
SuperSport’s decision, Rathbone said, “The SABC is
considering all its options on the matter.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.