The stakeholders in the digital marketing ecosystem need to pull together to face its challenges and capitalise on opportunities. With more than 346 million new internet users coming
online globally, 2020 opened up the digital gates – including access,
interactivity, and engagement. This phenomenal growth resulted in the
equivalent of 10 years’ innovation in a mere six months. Local publishers saw a surge in monthly traffic, with
News24, Fin24, the Citizen and Business Insider showing a month-on-month
increase of more than 50% in unique browsers over the height of lockdown as we
searched for credible updates in real-time online. This was combined with
radical bursts of a global, collective energy that saw historical structures
and ideologies being re-evaluated and recalibrated, redefining almost
everything we know, even if we cannot fully articulate these monumental changes
just yet. Our industry has been faced with equally significant
challenges, and as the obstacles (and opportunities) of last year still hang in
the air of this one like a thick fog, we find ourselves asking myriad questions
about the nature of our businesses and personal lives: Do we move our business
completely online or keep our physical space as our primary customer
touchpoint? Do we bring all our staff back to HQ or remain a predominantly
work-from-home business? Do we stop using third-party data completely and move
it all to first-party? Do I keep my career path linear or do I specialise and
branch out into an expertise-driven field? In my experience, and as we build the bridge to better
fortunes out of the year that was, the answer is in fact to choose both. As Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) Global CEO David Cohen so aptly puts it, “Our ability to meet the very large changes ahead depends on how much we are willing to rise to the occasion. We can’t shrug and go back to business as usual. As an industry, we must reset our mindset. We need to remind the world of all that the ad-supported internet has provided – and continues to provide. The endless drumbeat of negativity about tracking, privacy, fraud and fears of Big Tech will continue in 2021. When naysayers shout, ‘What good is digital?’ the answer is: plenty. The free and open web that helped us all get through 2020 is indispensable.” Some of the most notable disruptions from the IAB Global Brand Disruption Report that we can expect to navigate locally in the year ahead include: “Change will  happen at a dizzying pace, and it will be happening everywhere at once – from  privacy and policy decisions to addressability and attribution across every  imaginable device, to the convergence of video and commerce in consumers’  living rooms, to an unstoppable drive for diversity across the industry,” continues Cohen. “This is not the year to go it alone. More so than in any  year in recent memory, 2021 is a time when the entire ecosystem – publishers,  ad tech, agencies, and brands – must come together to make sense of it all. At the IAB we call this the ‘big tent’,
with our membership crossing all marketing, media, platforms, ad technology and
marketing technology segments to identify relevant growth opportunities and
deliver cross-purpose solutions. Whether solving for brand safety, viewability
or benchmarking online ad spend in South Africa, it is the uniting of all the various industry
stakeholders that enables the IAB to empower the media and marketing industries
to thrive in a digital economy. “We must reset our commitment to working together as an ecosystem,” says Cohen. “We must park our egos and our pride of ownership at the door and pull together. The most challenging industry problems we face – cross-screen measurement; identity resolution; balancing privacy, personalisation and safety; and more – won’t improve unless we all work together. Ready or not, 2021 is here. When the industry looks back at this moment in 10 or 20 years, we won’t remember what ended; instead, we’ll remember what started. This is our moment. What we make of it is up to us.” Paula Hulley joined the IAB SA as CEO on 1 July 2018, with more than 15 years of experience in building brands and consumer-engaging experiences. She joined digital agency Gloo in its first year of inception, going on to become MD of the Cape Town office and then MD of the integrated business, Gloo@Ogilvy post the merger with Ogilvy in 2015. Hulley then became head of innovation and digital for Ogilvy Cape Town. Sources: DataReportal, July 2020; ITU, 2019; IAB 2020 Global Brand Disruption Report Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.