Much of today’s business environment has become digital, with millions of customers talking about the businesses that they engage with, the products they buy from them, and customer service issues mentioned on social media on a daily basis. As people also become more used to digital marketing, instead of traditional marketing methods, you will find that they trust what others share and say on social media platforms, blogs, forums, or online community platforms. This is why social listening is so essential. But what is social listening? In essence, social listening
is used to track specific conversations or keywords, brands, or communities
across a number of social media platforms to gather data that can be used as
actionable insights to make more informed decisions. If social listening is
something you aren’t implementing in your business in 2021, then listen up (pun
intended), because here’s why your business needs social listening. Social media is one of the best tools to use when
building relationships and trust with your customers. Social media has managed
to help to close the gap between your customer’s buyer journey and your
business. When approached correctly, the use of social listening tools can help
businesses by: Social listening can help companies learn
important information about their target audience. This includes things such as
their online activities, as well as the social media platforms that they use
the most. It also helps companies understand what their audiences think about
certain topics and their overall sentiment about the brand. In addition, social listening helps businesses
understand their audiences’ wants, needs, interests, and pain points, as well
as the various questions they may have based on the content they read and
share. This also includes questions they ask openly, and their overall
sentiment towards different keywords and topics. Speaking of customer service and experience,
social media is known to offer platforms where customers express their emotions
around brands and businesses. From gratitude for a speedy delivery of an online
purchase to anger about bad customer service at a particular store, social
listening tools are great for identifying all the online posts where your
customers mention your brand or services, providing insight into how best you
can provide better customer service. Remember when customer service was done over the
phone, by email or in the actual physical store? That is most certainly a thing
of the past now, as consumers use social media to interact with brands and companies
in a more direct way, which has become a growing trend in consumer
behaviourism. Businesses today are realising just how important it is to use
their official social media pages and accounts to engage with their customers
as a way of resolving any issues quickly, and social listening is a tool that
can help solve this efficiently. Another great benefit of social listening for
businesses is that it can help you see which of your products are favoured
among your customers, and which ones need improving. Any insights that you gather from analysing
social media conversations related to your products and services can help you
strategise on what you need to implement in order to improve your current
product offerings. You might even decide to have your customers participate in
product review campaigns where they share their experience of your product with
their audience, and you monitor what works and what doesn’t. Social listening tools are great assets for
businesses to have in 2021; in fact, some might say that they are necessary for
gaining a better understanding of where a business fits in the digital
landscape, as well as their customers. If you are considering the use of a
social listening tool, here’s what you may want to pay attention to: From here, filter out the data that is
unimportant and analyse what is, then use that to provide a customer experience
tailored exactly to your customers, while improving on what the data indicated
as negatively perceived by your audience. This isn’t as complicated as it
sounds but with the help of a social listening tool, it certainly makes it
easier for your business to see success in 2021 and beyond. Social listening has great potential to unlock
success for businesses in 2021. A great African proverb says that if you want
to go fast, go alone but if you want to go far, go together. Listen to your
customers, use the insights you find to address their needs and adjust your own
strategies, and watch just how far your business can go. The thoughts expressed in this external contribution are those of the author. Khalipha Ntloko is the junior content marketer at Meltwater, the global leaders in media intelligence and social analytics, and a company focused on providing its customers with solutions that help them make more informed decisions. With her experience in marketing, Ntloko enjoys sharing tips, insights and best practices on content marketing and social media management. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.