This article is not about media trends or forecasts for 2021, as I’m sure there will be countless prediction pieces written on that. It’s about something of far greater importance: our position and our purpose as people within the media industry. It’s a topic rarely discussed in annual reports, but a critical
component of our next steps into 2021. Last year was undoubtedly different, we
are all well aware of that, but what made it profoundwas the silence that
submerged society. Billboards projected to empty highways, newspapers were left
untouched shelf upon shelf, coffee machines in once-crowded cafés collected
dust, and shopping centres had not one pair of feet amble through their aisles
to pop a product in a trolley. Habitual nature stopped. And for the first time in years, we
were present, as the silence awakened loud thoughts and reflections. You might
think that people – or as we like to call them, consumers – have thoughts all
the time, but this was different. Consumption was replaced by contemplation,
which became a catalyst. It was this
collective awareness and the mindfulness of these thoughts that shook the world
harder than any pandemic ever could. These thoughts traversed the globe through media, and then became
actions – actions that shape-shifted social structures and will be recorded in
history books for generations to come.
Our world was in clear need of mass
change on multiple fronts and this is where the media industry stepped up, in
full force. This is what blew me away last year! One example, which affected all African
nations, was the #BlackLivesMatter movement. It questioned and reset social
conversations, opinions and behaviour surrounding deeply embedded social
constructs. This affected hundreds of millions of people today, as well as
their futures and the futures of the next generations to come. The movement reflected a similar
pattern to that of the #MeToo movement, which collectively empowered women,
their bodies and their rights. The same applies to the various
micro-movements that developed during Covid-19 that promoted care for all,
especially the vulnerable and the weak with #StaySafeStayHome and
#FlattenTheCurve, which encouraged love for thy neighbour, shifting from a
local to national and then international scale. These movements developed in a matter
of days and created ripples that will last lifetimes. That is the power of
media! You, reading this article right now,
work in an industry that is the agent
for the change we so critically need in the world. This is how we need
to approach 2021 – with knowledge of the influence, power and responsibility we
hold in our hands. What
if we used the same media channels and communication strategies currently being
used to convince people to exchange their hard-earned income for a soda to also
convince millions of people to buy and plant one tree seedling? What if we used the same media channels
and communication strategies currently being used to make certain brands social
status symbols to also make single-use plastic and littering socially taboo? There
are many issues that need to be solved, some so widespread that it seems almost
impossible, but we have found the power to create such large shifts before, so
it only makes sense that we continue to find the power to shift them in a
positive direction in the future. If we choose to create collective change as
strategically as we launch a new beer, then we could be in for an astounding
new reality. And if we do not proactively act on
this position of great potential in a way that moves our world forward, our
upcoming consumers, the Generation Zs of the world, are well aware of our
position and will soon hold enough purchasing power to demand it. If anything,
that in itself is one of my forecasts for the near future. Media, the most influential platform on earth, can and
should be used for so much more than selling products and posting selfies. It has the potential to be the biggest catalyst for human
connection and change, and we know it. It’s a platform we have perfected and chosen
as our profession, so how now can it contribute towards our individual and
industry purposes? It’s a very big thought, but we are very big by nature, and
as the voice of the largest brands in the world we now need our own voice,
hopefully one that can add significant value. So, as we look to revive, recalibrate and refresh our industry post this pandemic, let’s do so in a manner that makes the next movement #MediaThatMatters, shall we? Roxanne Boyes is a media strategist who has spent time studying the faculties of economics, environmental and behavioural sciences and marketing. She is based in Kenya, and splits her time between her first love – strategy – and spearheading Vizeum’s SME incubator within East Africa. Since the very start of her journey, she has set her focus on the African continent as a strategist working across 27 different regions. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.