If Covid-19 has taught us anything, it’s that adaptability is needed not just to thrive, but also to survive. This has certainly been true in business, where the mettle of marketers has been thoroughly tested since the start of the pandemic. Covid-19
necessitated change at breakneck speed for brands. Priorities shifted,
consumers began to behave – and feel – differently, and marketing strategies
had to turn on a penny to accommodate the state of flux brought about by
various lockdowns. To
delve into this further, Thinkbox – the UK marketing body for TV advertising –
commissioned Work Research to explore what the Covid-19 crisis really meant for
marketers. At
the end of 2020 they conducted interviews with 12 senior clients, who reflected
on the pandemic’s impact on their businesses, and revealed their perspectives
on what changes they foresaw in their approach to marketing throughout 2021 and
beyond. Six clear themes emerged from the research (there’s also a short film summarising each theme, which you can you view at Thinkbox). The
Covid-19 crisis created a distinct need for enhanced social awareness, as
advertisers were required to tune in sensitively to the emotional state of the
nation. Marketers quickly had to assess the appropriateness of their messaging as the world turned upside down – and kept on changing. Tone became a critical factor and many marketers talked about the pressure of empathetically reflecting the national mood. Broadcasters also quickly adapted with virtual programming and socially distanced audiences. TV advertising gave many brands a way of aligning themselves with what the  public were going through. Ben
Newbury from Yorkshire Tea highlighted the position that many advertisers found
themselves in: “We always had to take that healthy sense check of ‘What’s
really going on?’ And [we knew] we were going to get this right or wrong before
we pressed go. It paused a lot of stuff that we made. We held it, and we held
it, until we felt the time was right to go live.” The
balance between brand and response was brought into sharp focus by Covid-19.
Advertisers were forced to rethink their campaigns, often at incredibly short
notice – firstly because the hard sell no longer seemed appropriate, and
secondly because trust and mental availability became even more crucial in the
post-Covid world. It made sense that marketers turned to the channels that
consumers were most likely to see and trust. Payback was also crucial as brands
needed to generate immediate sales but also shore up their brand health in the
longer term, to withstand any future lockdowns. Simon
Wallis from Domino’s summed it up the attitude to marketing during Covid-19:
“We used three guiding principle as some kind of compass. First: keep serving
our customers and looking after our people. Second: build brand preference and
look after our communities. And third: ensure that the brand comes out of the
crisis stronger than it went into it. In other words, take actions today that
our team members and customers will remember for a lifetime.” One
of the most radical shifts Covid-19 instigated was in consumer behaviour,
particularly when it comes to purchasing. For many advertisers, a positive
benefit of lockdown was a growth in their consumer base as customers either
chose, or were forced, to deviate from their usual brand preferences and try
something new. The inevitable challenge is how to make those changes stick – or
win back the customers that had been lost due to the pandemic. This challenge
is causing marketers to refresh their thinking around mass reach, their
distinctive assets, and light consumers in 2021. Amy
Butterworth from Tesco highlighted how things have shifted: “Targeting really
changed from a sub-segment of society to everyone who does a shop – no matter
where to be honest – everyone that needs to buy food, so basically the whole
population.” The pace of brand change has been unparalleled
since lockdown started. One client described it as “10 years of change in one”. Evolution went into overdrive, leading to many
brand initiatives that were previously unimaginable. Ultimately, businesses changed
because people changed – and the effects weren’t just limited to advertisers.
Innovation was also at the heart of the broadcasters’ agendas. New programme
formats, ways of watching and an increased use of rich back catalogues meant
that TV stayed relevant for both audiences and advertisers as everyone adjusted
to the pandemic way of life. Gayle
Noah, from L’Oreal, said: “We’d already started on the e-commerce journey many
years ago, but I would say that Covid-19 really accelerated our plans by about
three years. So within a matter of weeks we had activated a lot more platforms,
channels and retailers to start driving e-commerce.” All media are not created equal. Different media
channels signal different qualities about the brands that advertise on them.
The importance of trust, quality and brand strength has been amplified
throughout lockdown. These signals are entrenched in TV – and its
advertising – and help explain why the medium was so valued throughout the
pandemic. TV was viewed as a reliable and
effective vehicle for building brand awareness and trust on a mass scale.
It was also unique in its ability to help people feel good again due to its
ability to harness the power of positive emotion. These attributes were of huge
benefit to advertisers throughout lockdown. Chris Ladd from Nationwide, said: “I can’t believe there won’t be some long-term benefit from us having market presence in the medium that has always given off a sense of trust and stature.” Nicole Greenfield-Smith is research content lead at Thinkbox, the UK’s marketing body for television. Greenfield-Smith has commissioned, managed and worked across virtually every one of Thinkbox’s research projects – many award winning – since she joined the company back in 2006. She began her career in media after completing her Masters degree in Research Consultancy.  She has worked for several organisations including Ebiquity, Flextech Television, The BBC and Accenture before landing the role at Thinkbox and finding her spiritual home. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.