[PRESS OFFICE] Leveraging your data is not a tech problem, it’s about your internal co-ordination, team, and resources. As businesses and consumers, we are
accumulating data faster than ever before. Today, we have progressed far beyond
the human ability to act on the firehose of data that flows through all
organisations. Fortunately, sophisticated technology creates insight from chaos
– and presents the potential to establish, maintain, and grow individual and
unique concurrent relationships with millions of consumers that simulate human
intelligence. This is the dream. The promise. The
possibility. For marketers and business leaders struggling for growth, it hints
at utopia. Yet this dream has been sold (often
oversold) at marketing tech conferences for years by people with ‘evangelist’
or ‘ninja’ in their titles, and we have been bombarded with jargon, buzzwords,
and complicated systems that seem to unnecessarily complicate a complicated
matter. The reality is that most of us are
struggling to access the data, make basic sense of it, and activate it
efficiently – let alone living the dream. Admittedly, we make it harder than
it needs to be. Most often we get in our own way. Generally, executive mandate
isn’t wide or deep enough to enable those who have the ability to execute – and
top brass don’t kick down enough doors to enable execution teams to achieve
what they need to. Often, we buy tech (most frequently
from the vendors who oversell the dream) that need consultants to operate, and
multi-year implementation schedules. The time to value is generally too long
and the capital expenditure to get the ‘solution’ up and running is most
frequently simply too much. High cost, plus slow deployment, equals frustrated
and annoyed execs. This is particularly amplified when implementation runs
across project sponsors’ tenures and new people inherit the programme. So, where to from here? We need to
reframe and understand where the challenge – and the solution – really lies. I’m a firm believer in starting with
the end in mind, but you can’t skip the things in between. There are
foundations to build, lessons to learn, and there are corporate legacies to
navigate. Your strategy needs to be primed, and groundwork needs to be done. Primarily, we make the common mistake of believing that a data and automation strategy is a tech problem to solve. It isn’t. It is an organisational co-ordination and resourcing challenge. So, if you think you are going to
buy tech to solve this challenge, you are going to have a bad time and you are
going to hate life for a solid stretch. Technology is absolutely the ultimate
enabler – you can’t do this without it, but you can’t lead with it. In short,
don’t buy or build tech until you know exactly what you have and have mapped
exactly what you want to achieve. Tech can never fix a broken
strategy, crumbling foundations, or lack of experience. What it does do really well is make mistakes really
expensive (and high profile). Importantly, once we get going, it becomes evident (but not always noticed) that we didn’t give the people we hold accountable for the outcome strong enough mandate to get things done, and often we don’t give the task to a strong-enough person… because you need some gravitas, guts, stamina, and a thick skin to get this done in a large organisation. Finally, you need to know what you
aim to achieve. What are your organisational goals here? Goals disaggregate to objectives that are achieved through value
workflows and conversations across the organisation. For example: Do you want a
customer to buy something? Map your sales conversation and funnel, and fire it
off at the right time, in context, personalised, and relevant to a prospect…now
do this on an individual basis, at millions-scale. To effectively define your
objectives and goals for a data strategy, you need to interrogate your business
model – and its core purpose. So, what is your core business? This
is a trick question. Yes, you might sell goods or services, but you are also a
data, attention, and trust business. In the data – rather, insight,
attention, and trust market – we all compete for limited supply of these
valuable consumer resources…and we compete against a near-infinite demand from
businesses which overwhelm our consumers. With this in mind, we must
responsibly leverage the data at our disposal, grab attention from anything
that takes focus away from our solutions – and build a bank of trust that
facilitates our relationship with consumers around our core business. Data, trust, and attention are
inherently linked – and form the combined platform to execute your marketing
automation strategy from. With this said, we must start
building some foundations to compete in this insight, trust, and attention
economy. While the execution through automation is sexier, getting your data footing in place will determine your success. Let’s take a quick look at the types of data at your disposal. You’ll find that 80% of your success
comes from insights that are quite easy to obtain. In other words, you don’t
need expensive data science teams to unlock your first significant tranche of
value! That said, the challenge that we
face is that we have created irrational system complexity with hundreds of
federated solutions holding its data hostage in different formats, on different
schemas, and where only functional and practical integration exists to execute
an operational task. Once we have made this data
accessible, we can get to execution, right? But getting this data timeously,
accurately, and consistently is so very often where organisations fall short. At this stage, we must surface this
data and create a universal data pool that is consistent, understandable,
accurate, and easily accessible via an integration layer that will expose the
holistic data (which can be augmented first of course) to other systems for
operational efficiencies – and to develop insight using various techniques from
simple reporting, to advanced analytics, to data science and machine learning. Importantly, you can surface the
data and provision it for use without having to overhaul your entire technology
platform. There is so much inertia in large organisations’ tech clusters that
skipping the queue by integrating at a data layer will get you to value
significantly quicker and with less pain. This is a tough feat in itself, but
until this task has been completed, you can’t truly unlock the value you need.
That said, keep in mind that perfection is the enemy of progress and that you
need only have the base data available to start creating value. But your end
game requires a holistic view of a customer and the data that describes them,
and their relationship with you and your products. Cross-divisional participation can
work if the overarching execs are closely aligned, and there is no conflict in
their KPIs and incentive schemes. However, it adds another layer of complexity
and drag to something that will produce enough pain without us adding more. I mentioned that we don’t give a
wide, deep, and strong enough mandate to a strong enough candidate to get
things done. You need to appoint a strong person who has matrix competence that
can own and add value to the entire data value chain. If you are serious about
being successful, you must realise that this is a meaty thing that needs
full-time resources allocated to it, whether they sit across your existing
divisions or concentrated into a centre of excellence. You’ll have an unusual, composite
team that includes one or more integration developers, data developers, data
scientists, data analysts, marketing tech specialists – and if you are serious
about conversion optimisation and agility in terms of creating collateral, you
need access to a designer and copywriter too. Then, the head of this band of
misfits needs to be a good story-teller; be able to hold conversations with and
contribute meaningfully to each dimension of their team; understand the
strategic and commercial realities of each division of the organisation to
bring them value; have a thick skin, and be fully assimilated into the
organisation. Once you have your internal
resources and team in place, make sure to take care of your unicorn and be
tolerant of failure…as long as the overall trajectory is upwards. You’ll need to accept the fact that there will be failure and it is important to create a safe environment for failure and throw-away work. You can’t have rapid deployment of complicated functions and strategy without risk. Here, it is useful to create guardrails to reduce the consequences of risk. These will look different for each business and team. Get to value quicker by empowering a strong person with an overarching mandate that includes oversight of the following elements of the data lifecycle. Collection: Make sure you get what you need by doing it yourself in close co-operation with your product and development department. This includes: Augmentation: Transform the
data you collect, and bake in context and intelligence to create actionable
data, by doing the following: Activation: Actionable data
needs to be prepared and provisioned to work for you. Make sure you include: Execution: Once provisioned
and primed, marketers and the mar-tech they operate take over to reach out to your
customers. Elements to consider here: Feedback: Consistent
feedback of engagement statistics feed your models and triangulates your
customers’ positions in the various conversion funnels – which serve as
triggers for your journeys. These include: That’s a mouthful. Let’s stop here for now. In the next instalment, we will discuss how to develop a clear route to value for your data strategy. This will include how to offset your liability and risk with the potential benefits… and what these benefits look like. *PRESS OFFICE is paid-for content. Prefix Technologies was established in 2004, in the garage of a Parktown home, with its main focus on publishers. In 2010, Everlytic was born, the bulk email and SMS platform for marketers from all industries to communicate better with customers. Since then, we’ve developed our software into the sophisticated multi-channel marketing and automation tool it is today, with over 60 staff members in offices in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Everlytic is a level 3 BEE contributor and our software is 100% South African, built by our team of talented software engineers. We’ve been ranked the fastest growing tech company in South Africa and the third fastest in Africa by Deloitte. Everlytic was also nominated as a Top 10 finalist in PWC’s 2015 Vision to Reality Awards and voted one of the Most Promising African Technology Companies by CIO Review in 2020.  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.