A new digital skills gap report has found the biggest problem in South Africa is a lack of employees with data analytics skills, followed by marketing automation, user experience, digital video marketing and digital content marketing. South African companies reported a lack of skills in the media industry including the advertising, media and online publishing sub-sectors. The IAB SA, in
partnership with The Red and Yellow Creative School of Business, published The
2021 Digital Skills Gap Report this week. The industry-wide survey
highlights the key challenges faced by brands, agencies, and publishers. All of the top skills
identified as lacking are those vital in a digital world that requires
employees to be adept at a range of digital tools and technology, regardless of
their role, the IAB SA reports. Of concern is that an “overwhelming 83% of
respondents said that they have to provide new employees with digital marketing
and advertising experience – regardless of their position or prior experience”. This finding is one of
several that emphasises the need for improved training and education across the
width and breadth of the industry, the IAB SA says. CEO of the IAB SA, Paula
Hulley, says the report is a “critical toolkit enabling both an understanding
of the digital marketing skills landscape and an opportunity to nurture
continuous learning opportunities at a time where it could not matter more”. The Covid-19 pandemic has
clearly speeded up the digital transformation process, and skills are not keeping
apace. Hulley says digitisation
has never happened faster than it is happening right now. “This opportunity to
equip our industry with critical insights on digital marketing skills gives the
full digital marketing ecosystem a tangible opportunity to bridge the gap – and
beyond.” The reports points out
that the exponential growth in the ‘digital-first’ approach is a much-needed
boon for the industry, “but this gain necessitates an availability of the right
digital-skills – some of which are in critically short supply”. Head of the IAB SA’s
education portfolio, Hello Computer JHB’s managing director, Joey Khuvultu,
says the IAB SA’s objective and hope is that the learnings will be “a first
step in providing data and insights to inform and encourage closer dialogue
between education institutions and industry to accelerate our collective
efforts to upskill employees and our youth.” Interestingly, Covid-19 has
had another far-reaching impact on the advertising industry – and that is the
way we work now. A massive 85% of respondents reported their companies would continue operating remotely indefinitely. With that, says the IAB SA, there is a growing need for soft, interpersonal skills in order for employees to effectively communicate and engage with a remote team. Also needed is that employees “become adept at self-management and self-motivation”. The full report can be downloaded here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.