Cape Town’s Dan Corder is the new breakfast show host on 5FM, leaving Good Hope FM to take up his new, national position. He is joined by Mathapelo Moloi on news, Xoli Zondo on sport, and Marli van Eeden on traffic. “5FM has always been the coolest radio station in my world. It is the station of the future where, together with our loyal 5FM fans across the country, I can make the radio of my dreams,” Corder said. Corder cut his teeth on campus radio before joining Good Hope FM.  Eastern Cape born news presenter Moloi’s love for news and current affairs saw her work in various newsrooms around the country. Zondo got her start in the industry on community TV, followed by her win of the 2013 National SABC Sports Presenter Search, which led her to work on SA FM’s weekend breakfast show for the past few years. Van Eeden also has community radio experience gained while co-hosting a breakfast show on a campus radio station in Stellenbosch In a press release, 5FM said the station hoped to “inject new energy with plenty of fresh talent in keeping with its ethos to bring together South African youth through the power of radio”. Another Capetonian, Stephanie B, takes over the mid-morning slot from 9am to 12pm. The mid-afternoon show, from 12 to 3pm, is now the preserve of  Zanele Potelwa takes over the afternoon slot (Mon. – Fri. 12:00 – 15:00). She joined 5FM as a member of the 5Squad before reading traffic on the breakfast show for the past year. She is joined by newsreader Yanga Mjoli. Veteran Roger Goode takes his special brand of on-air craziness to weekday nights, taking over the Monday – Friday 18:00 – 19:00 slots as well as an extended version of the show on Fridays 19:00 – 22:00. Leah Jazz, another success story of the 5Squad, will take over the late-night slot Monday – Thursday 22:00 – 01:00 and, with her edgy personality, will bring life to after hours. The stations’ weekend breakfast show Saturday & Sunday, 07:00 – 10:00, will see Nicole da Silva continue as the presenter and gain a new news presenter and sports presenter. Self-proclaimed radio-head Edah Setati joins Nicole da Silva on news while Wesley Gabriels, who has worked at multiple stations in Cape Town, is on sport. Hosting the Top 40 on 5 on Saturday (10:00 – 14:00) as well as 5 Takeover on Sunday at the same time is broadcaster Nick Archibald, who describes himself as an entertainer at heart and looks forward to joining the national radio station. Award-winning presenter Kea Boya joins the station to host two shows on Saturday and Sunday, 14:00 – 17:00. Boya joined campus radio in 2018 and has since won a Radio Award for a drive show and looks to bring her brand of engaging and relatable radio to a broader audience. Television graduate Boipelo Mooketsi has been working on campus radio for the past four years and will host two new weekend shows on 5FM on Saturday and Sunday, 22:00 – 01:00. 5FM LINE-UP Monday – Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 04:00 – 07:00 5 Weekend Early Mornings with Justin Toerien Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.