[PRESS OFFICE] As part of their continued strategy to deliver seamless content marketing campaigns, Level 1 BEE media specialist agency, MediaHeads 360 announced that creative solutions specialist, Melinda Jonsson will be joining their dynamic team. “Melinda,
who cut her teeth in the broadcasting landscape, is widely respected in the
industry and brings an incredible depth of experience,” said MediaHeads 360
Managing Director Candy Dempers. “We are thrilled to have her onboard to complement
our holistic results-driven solutions for advertisers and media platforms.” MediaHeads
360’s tactical campaigns are inspired by their 360-approach that includes idea generation,
production, implementation, syndication, branded content and content marketing
as well as mobile broadcast, social media amplification, activations and
influencer marketing. The company also places a strong focus on research and
campaign tracking to amplify and optimise the reach and impact of client
campaigns. A
skilled hand at 360-solutions, Jonsson has extensive experience in creating
non-traditional campaigns that maximise media channels such as radio, digital,
celebrity endorsements, events and activations to deliver on client objectives. “My
last position was as the Head of Creative Solutions for Johannesburg at
Primedia Broadcasting. The main purpose of this role and department is to drive
collaboration between the programming and sales teams by developing the
relationship between 947, 702 and Sales,” she added. Jonsson,
who left Primedia to spend some time with her young family, joined the
organisation as a Direct Account Executive in 2007 and over her 13 years with
the company, she developed and grew her skills as she successfully moved up in the
business, receiving a seat on OPCO and Annual Strategy Committees whilst
building relationships across corporate South Africa and the media industry. “In
addition to managing the team, I would personally oversee and be part of the
pitch-teams for key projects and events such as Nedbank Accelerator, Walk the
Talk, Ride Joburg, The RMB Solutionist Thinking, Africa Connected with Standard
Bank and others. Selling the content series ‘Solutionist Thinking’ to RMB was
one of my personal highlights as it was the first fully commercialised podcast
partnership with a radio media owner of its kind and it received a Highly
Commended Award at AMASA for Best Partner Content Campaign in 2019,” added Jonsson,
who joined MediaHeads 360 in March. MediaHeads
360 recently celebrated innovations like integrated content marketing
opportunities on locally produced shows like uBettina Wethu and using
the WhatsApp platform to build auto entry mechanisms for competitions and
virtual casting portals. The company has also expanded their services to include
website design and development, social media marketing, search engine
optimisation, website hosting, e-commerce development and mobile applications. “These
are exciting times for us and Melinda’s appointment is key in aligning our
ever-expanding services to platform and client. We look forward to continue
leveraging our relationships with media owners to negotiate and deliver the
best value all round,” Dempers concluded. ENDS CONTACT INFORMATION Contact Person : Melinda Jonsson Designation:  Sales and Business Development Consultant Phone:  082 463 4079 Email:  melinda@mediaheads360.co.za About MediaHeads 360 MediaHeads 360 are Level 1 BEE media
specialists that develop and implement integrated, strategic marketing
campaigns across diverse platforms. Our services are inspired by our 360
approach and include idea generation, production, implementation, campaign
tracking, syndication, research, branded content, mobile broadcast,
non-traditional television and radio campaigns, social media amplification
activations and influencer marketing. In addition, we leverage our excellent
relationships with media owners to negotiate with platforms across the country. We ACTIVATE by creating holistic,
result-driven campaigns within the right environment. We CAPTIVATE through
well-implemented and engaging campaigns with multiple touch points. We AMPLIFY
and optimise your reach and impact with 360 solutions. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.