[PARTNER CONTENT] This year Lifetime (DStv 131) is jam-packed with brand new seasons of hit reality favourites including Married at First Sight, Little Women and Bridezillas, riveting new crime shows as well as Lifetime’s much-loved ‘Ripped from the Headlines’ movie titles that are centred on some of the most iconic women in pop culture history; Salt-N-Pepa, Wendy Williams and Whitney Houston. Wendy Williams: Hot Topic (10 April at 19h20) is a biopic executive produced by the outspoken TV talk-show host herself. It is a brutally honest and intimate look at Wendy’s life including details about her struggle with addiction and her divorce. This is followed directly by the feature length documentary, Wendy Williams: What a Mess! (10 April Saturday 20h50), where she sheds her private persona and speaks directly to the camera about her tumultuous life and career. This raw and emotional interview with Wendy will give loyal fans insight into the most controversial headlines that have surrounded the star over the past few years. Lifetime also brings viewers bingeworthy monthly themed movies all year
round, every Saturday and Sunday evening from 19h20. From ‘Ripped from the Headlines’ movies in April,
to a slate of ‘Family Feud’ movies in May and ‘Man Crush’ movies in June. Lifetime’s famous ’So Wrong They’re Right’
movies will take centre stage in September with titles like The Wrong Mr.
Right and The Wrong Nanny, before giving way to edge-of your seat
thrillers in October. As the home to Married at
First Sight, Lifetime boasts back to back seasons of the award-winning hit
series in April and July. Everything is new in season 11 of Married at First Sight
(starts 02 April at 20h05). There are new couples, new drama, all set in New Orleans.
Then in August, season 12 of Married at First Sight heads to Atlanta for
what is set to be the most romantic, diverse and surprising season yet as ten brave,
but loveless singles enter a legally binding marriage at first sight. After a monumental year of
challenges and change, Lifetime’s hit series Little Women: Atlanta returns
with the premiere of season six in May (starts 6 May at
20h05). The season kicks off with Ms. Juicy, Minnie, the Tiny Twinz Amanda
& Andrea, Abira and the return of Monie, as the ladies come back together
in Atlanta to pursue their dreams in the city’s vibrant hip hop
scene. Once again, these feisty ladies bring the fun and the drama as they
continue to juggle their careers, friendships,
complicated love lives and for some, motherhood. They are also forced to deal
with the pandemic and then the tragic loss of their cast mate Minnie. The highly anticipated episodes will be directly followed by the all-new 30 minute after show, Little Women: Atlanta Unfiltered, hosted by Loni Love. Loni Love also narrates the new season of Bridezillas (starts 11
May at 21h00) which is back with a vengeance. The most over-the-top brides
wreak wedding havoc leading to epic meltdowns, wild bachelorette blowouts, and
dramatic family feuds on the way to the altar. In other hot reality viewing;  Lifetime has brand new episodes of Marrying
Millions (starts 13 April Tuesday at 20h05). When one partner is incredibly
flush and the other is most definitely not, it seems friends and family can’t
help but question whether it is in fact true love. For those looking for their crime fix, Wednesdays from 20h15 on Lifetime
is the place to be.  Murder at My Door
with Kym Marsh (starts 10 March at 21h00) is a jaw-dropping true-crime series which explores cases of innocent
people murdered in their own homes by someone they thought they could trust
and, in some cases, had known for many years. Green Eyed Killers (starts 05 May at 21h00) tells the stories of
ordinary people put in extraordinary situations due to the actions of jealous
lovers whose violent and controlling acts lead to horrific consequences.  This gripping and emotional series shows how
the victims were able to overcome these life-changing experiences. Then in June,
Survivors with Denise Welch examines the immense trauma faced by
survivors of horrific crimes and the incredible effort required to return to
normalcy in the bloody aftermath. Lifetime (DStv 131) is bringing their viewers all the reality drama, intriguing crime and the best in made-for-TV movies this year. Follow Lifetime on social media  Facebook: Lifetime Africa Twitter: @lifetimesa Instagram: lifetimeafrica A+E Networks Africa (PTY) Ltd, trading as A+E Networks Africa, is a subsidiary of A+E Networks® UK. A+E Networks® UK, a joint venture between Hearst and Sky, is a leading media network reaching 60 million homes across 100 countries. With our portfolio of popular, high-performing and creative brands – HISTORY®, Crime+Investigation®, Lifetime®, HISTORY2® and UK free to air BLAZE® – we have entertained and inspired audiences for over 20 years; telling the stories that need to be told. Our award-winning factual and entertainment content includes global hit franchises like Forged in Fire and Born this Way, must see dramas Knightfall and Vikings as well as original local commissions including: Al Murray’s Why Does Everyone Hate the English and Murdertown with Katherine Kelly (UK), Married at First Sight (Africa) and The Hunt for Baltic Gold (Poland).  We complement our programming with innovative talent-led exclusive digital content and top-rated podcasts. We currently partner with over 360 operators broadcasting throughout the Nordics, Benelux, Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We have offices in London, Warsaw, and Johannesburg. About
Lifetime Africa Lifetime® is a female-focused premium entertainment channel dedicated to offering the highest quality original programming. The channel, available on DStv 131, brings viewers edgy reality, made for TV movies and breakout relationship/wedding shows. Lifetime reaches over 170 million people in the US, Canada, South East Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Lifetime Africa is part of the A+E Networks Africa channel portfolio, which includes HISTORY® and Crime + Investigation®. For more information on sponsorship opportunities or ad related queries please contact: tumi.mthembu@dstvmedia.com Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.