Have you ever had your virtual hand up in an online meeting, ready to make a brilliant suggestion or ask a pertinent question? As time ticks away and a cacophony of voices drown out your chance to shine, you eventually concede to those who are louder and more persistent. In this scenario, you, my overlooked friend, are your brand. With a bevy of voices jostling for attention in the digital space, how do you get your brand to speak loud enough for your audience to hear you, and most importantly, take action? Or will big brash budgets always win? The history of storytelling dates back thousands of years
with some of the earliest narrative found on African rock art. Whether through
cave paintings, wall carvings, papyrus drawings or myths and legends shared
around the campfire, our ancestors shared their values, beliefs, and
experiences. Storytelling is the reason novels like, Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe is prescribed reading in African schools and around the world. In its pages we see ourselves and in the folklore from ancestors in Igbo culture, we recognise a common thread of humanity that extends to countless other cultures. It is also the reason a seemingly innocent Marvel movie like Black Panther gave rise to a counter-cultural movement of pride in Africa, its abilities and heritage. Brands have woken up to the fact that customers and prospects no longer want to know why their brand is the best ‘BUY, BUY, BUY, BUY, BUY’. But, if they can communicate their value proposition in a narrative format, their audience is much more likely to stop and listen. When we share our brand purpose through a story, we are doing it in a way that is natural to us and the receiver. We know when we’re being sold to, and we don’t like it. But
should a brand, instead of trying to sell you a high-quality couch, tell you
the story of the mom taking naps with her colicky newborn on the couch, you may
just pay attention. And, if they then show you how the same woman, as a
grandmother, sends her granddaughter off to college with the same couch, you
may just be hooked. The experience of hearing and seeing a human narrative
allows us to place ourselves inside the story which increases our oxytocin
levels (the “feel-good chemical) and, therefore, empathy. The hearer also
literally gets on the same wavelength as the storyteller, as their brain
patterns mimic that of the storyteller. Stories persuade while advertising bombards. Stories remove
barriers while advertising has to work extra hard to scale the obvious hurdle
of self-interest before the customer will engage. When you’re building your brand, a logo, a vision, a mission
statement and shiny CI is not enough to tell people who you are. Through storytelling, people will get to know
what your brand stands for: your values, beliefs, and experiences. People buy from people not from a Pantone colour. We’d like
to twist Theodore Roosevelt’s famous quote a little and say, “People don’t care
what you sell until they know how much you care.” As Scott Bredbury, a former Nike and Starbucks CMO put it:
“A brand is a story that connects with something very deep. Companies that
manifest this sensibility invoke something immensely powerful”. Sharing your authentic purpose binds you with your customer
during certain life stages and even for life. But how do you share your brand story without drowning in
the crowded digital public pool? If we go back to the history of stories, there’s a reason
why these tales or lessons handed down from our ancestors evoke such
significant emotions and memories. It’s about community, belonging and knowing
where we come from. It’s also tactile. We remember the hum of their voice,
Gogo’s pillowy lap, the smoke from the fire and the occasional jolts of surprise. Yaw Dwomoh, CEO of Idea Hive Brand Storytellers, a local
360-degree digital marketing agency says, “Digital storytelling requires a
multi-pronged approach to draw customers in.” SEO is the performance marketing practice of connecting the audience to
your message. When you know what your ideal audience
is searching for, you start to build a picture of who they are. To produce an effective SEO strategy, partnering with a company that has
the digital analysis and MarTech capability will look at which topics are
trending and how your target audience uses words to connect to your brand. An
SEO Specialist will look at how best to use content and the website to connect your
story to your audience online. This helps you speak to your customer in a consistent
authentic tone across all touchpoints about issues that matter to them and sows
the seeds of brand love. You only have 3 seconds to capture your reader’s attention
while they decide whether to click away. Instead of “BUY, BUY, BUY” messaging,
why not ‘sell’ them the lifestyle that could accompany those items. Help them
escape. Talk about the “why” behind what you do. If you create jobs locally or
source sustainable materials, it should be on your webpage. With your content
whether visual, written or video, think ‘best friend’ rather than the
salesperson with the brown suit and briefcase. 81% of businesses use video as a marketing tool. By 2022,
online videos will make up over 82% of all consumer internet traffic — 15 times
higher than it was in 2017. Viewers keep 95% of a message when they watch it in
a video, compared to 10% when reading it in text. Video is no longer just for
big brands. We have some exceptional talent locally who create world-class
video affordably. Is it time to dust off your stale corporate video or
newsletters, or to go live with your CEO on social? The people who work for you are often the forgotten
superfans. Apart from your digital assets, you have these real, live
storytellers who can share your brand story out there. But charity begins at
home and the way you communicate with your employees will guide how they share
that message in the digital world. Spend the time to take your employees
through your brand story and purpose or, even better, live it. They will
quickly tell you whether you’re full of it and not living up to your portrayal
of yourself. This has become a little tricky during the pandemic as
social distancing curbs in-store activation. VR, AR and Smartcodes, are a safer
way for customers to experience your brand without having to leave their home.
How could you serve them where they are even by entertaining them? How could
you show you care? Dwomoh says, “Customers are suffering from digital messaging fatigue. We all are! To cut through the clutter, you need to show up as a real, likeable ‘human’, wherever your fans live online and in the actual world. Brands need to go back to the storytelling basics or face banishment to ‘unsubscribe’ and ‘unfollow’ zone.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.