Corporates should include another ‘p’ in their marketing plans, to support proper journalism. This may well be the most effective way to protect our economy and corporate profits. The
current nosedive in economic activity in South Africa has hit many sectors with
a sledgehammer. One of these is the media sector. Several
media owners – including major players such as Caxton, Media24 and Arena – have
announced the closure of long-standing household publications and the
retrenchment of large numbers of staff. These retrenchments include a large
number of journalists. Unfortunately,
this is happening in a period where the media plays a critical role to hold
corrupt government officials and their private sector participants to account.
If not for journalists and committed South African publishers, these
individuals and companies will never be held accountable, even if it is only in
the court of public opinion. There
is no capacity, or perhaps political will, to investigate or prosecute these
individuals. Admittedly, the Zuma administration destroyed the capability of
prosecuting authorities to hold corrupt officials to account, but after more
than two years under a new administration virtually nothing has changed. If
it were not for the independent and mainstream media, the current looting would
be exponentially higher. This
weak and inadequate prosecuting performance also opened the doors of
unprecedented levels of corporate fraud, as there is little fear of
prosecution. The
reality is that unprosecuted corruption has brought the South Africa economy to
its knees and government finances to the edge of a fiscal cliff, from which the
country cannot retreat without strong, decisive leadership and strong
institutions reflective of a properly functioning constitutional democracy. We
do not see this. On
the contrary, many of the alleged corrupt individuals hold senior positions in
the ruling party. This caused the economy almost terminal damage. The result is
record-low business confidence and investment, record-high unemployment,
inequality and poverty. However
disheartening this may be, I firmly believe that journalists and publishers
have played a pivotal role over the past decade in limiting the downward
trajectory of the ethical and economic carnage we see today. Without
journalists South Africa would not have known about the arms deal scandal,
Nkandla; ‘travelgate’; state capture; the Guptas; corruption at Transnet,
Eskom, SAA, PetroSA, Prasa, Sars and the Public Investment Corporation;
allegations against Ace Magashule; Covid-19 tender fraud; VBS; Bank of Baroda;
Bosasa; the Estina dairy farm; the Life Healthcare Esidimeni tragedy; fraud at
Steinhoff and Tongaat; the ongoings at Sharemax/Nova and Picvest; EOH; or
Krion. The list is long. In
this context, the forced restructuring of media institutions, the introduction
of paywalls which will limit mass access to investigative articles, and the
imminent layoff of many experienced journalists will have a much more
significant impact on society than their loss of income. Media
institutions usually retrench the most ‘expensive’ journalists first, most
notably investigative journalists. The
reference to expensive does not relate to these journalists’ salaries, but to
the trade of investigative journalism. It is the most costly form of journalism. It
is the most costly form of journalism. The complexity of the investigations
means some journalists take weeks and months to do the necessary research and
investigations before revelations are made. Such
individual articles do not earn publishers any meaningful revenue and in most
cases, are loss-making. Hence, such journalists are replaced with ‘more
affordable’ young journalists, if they are replaced at all. During
a recent (virtual) social gathering of a group of experienced journalists and
editors, I asked the participants to name the investigative journalists who are
making a difference. These journalists and editors could not even name 20
individuals. I
have also put this scenario to many CEOs of listed companies over the past few
months and every single one agreed with the importance of a strong, independent
media and the role it plays to protect our constitutional democracy. The CEOs
also generally appreciate the role advertising plays to allow journalists to
execute this mandate. It
is also evident in the fact that many institutions financially support(ed) the
South African National Editors’ Forum relief fund for journalists who have
already lost their jobs – a decision most certainly taken by CEOs themselves. But
unfortunately, there is a structural problem in most companies’ decision-making
structures, which limits the CEOs ‘appreciation’, to flow through to media
spend. Most
companies’ advertising decisions lay with marketing managers, and these
decisions are often purely based on the pillars of traditional marketing
strategies to increase sales. If I can remember from my first-year marketing
course, these pillars are the traditional five Ps of marketing: product, price,
place, people and promotion. I
believe corporate South Africa should add another ‘P’ to their marketing
strategies: to support proper journalism. It is not a philanthropic pillar. The
watchdog role journalists play in South Africa contributes to the protection of
our constitutional democracy and per definition the economy, and this is the
economy all businesses operate in. Without
a growing economy, virtually no marketing strategy based on Ps will succeed. It
is a disgrace and demeaning that some of the most experienced journalists need handouts
to survive. It
is also a disgrace that some of South Africa’s international philanthropic
institutions financially support best financial journalists, and that some
local companies have decided to exclusively advertise via Google and Facebook
as it are cheaper. (These campaigns leave publishers with crumbs as the bulk of
the revenue goes to the American giants.) Corporate
South Africa should support mainstream publications, to allow these journalists
to earn their keep through their skills and to contribute to a stronger
constitutional democracy. This may well be the most effective way to protect our economy and corporate profits. Please discuss this column at your next board meeting. This story was first published in Lame Duck Digital, an initiative of CaxtonCTP, which was published on behalf of the broader media industry. The brief was simple: address the wide-ranging and dangerous effects social media and tech giants have had, and will continue to have, on the media sector. It can be downloaded here. Ryk van Niekerk is the managing editor of Moneyweb. Financial journalism is in his blood. He has been in the industry for 20 years is looking forward to the next 20. He has won numerous journalism awards, including several Sanlam Financial Journalist of the Year category awards and the coveted Radio Journalist of the Year award in 2016. He was also acknowledged as the National Press Club’s Editor of the Year in 2013. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.