Preparations for the MOST Awards 2021 edition are surging ahead after confirmation that the event will go ahead this year, albeit in a different format. Representatives
from media agencies and media owners gathered for the annual focus group – held
virtually – to discuss the format of the event, the categories and the research
parameters while acknowledging the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “One of the most
important success factors in our ‘new normal’ business world is the ability to
provide excellent service. Businesses that are able to adapt without
compromising their service levels are going to win,” said Brad Aigner, founder
of research outfit, Freshly Ground Insights, which is conducting the survey. “Those that do not will
most likely fail. This is why the Most Awards is no less relevant now than it
ever has been over the past 12-years. Our recent focus group interaction with
Industry stakeholders verified that the importance and fundamentals of service
delivery between buyers and sellers of media space has never changed. This is
why we are very pleased to be running the Most Awards research survey again
this year. The show is going on!” he emphasised. Reassuringly,
the consensus was that not much needs changing,
and that the criteria in particular are still considered relevant, even in the
current environment. The individual awards such as the Bell Award, the Shepherd
Award as well as the rising star and legends awards remain. “The feedback was very positive and the attitude one
of excitement. I got the feeling everyone believed it was mandatory that the
MOST Awards have to happen this year,” says Nicole Banks from Freshly Ground
Insights (FGI), which have, as always, conducted the research survey. Banks confirmed the questionnaire “wouldn’t change
that much”. Of course, the impact of the pandemic on ways of
working has to be acknowledged, and much discussion took place on how this
aspect should be brought into the MOST Awards in 2021. The topic of the cinema category elicited much
debate. With movie houses profoundly knocked by the pandemic for most of last
year, advertising sales took a major hit. The MOST team are digging deeper and
canvassing opinions on how to handle the category. Then there’s magazines, a sector that has been on
the ropes for some time, but was hard hit by the pandemic. The possibility of
combining it with newspapers into a single print category was mooted and is
being investigated. The rise of ‘content’ was acknowledged, too, with
several respondents suggesting a new ‘content delivery’ category in recognition
of its growing importance among effective delivery channels. Many agreed this
was worth checking out, but perhaps with a view to introducing it at a later
stage. And then of course, the work from home and virtual
sales environment has affected all agencies and owners, and their respective
teams. This new way of working has had an enormous impact
on media owners and agencies, and respondents believe a ‘virtually perfect
service award’ should have a place in the MOST Awards 2021. Sponsorship sales for the 2021 MOST
Awards are open and a variety of sponsorship packages are available.
Sponsorship of specific awards can be packaged to include online advertising
before, during and after the awards announcement, plus fun, creative and
enduring activations during the awards. For more
information or to sponsor the MOST Awards 2021 please contact Melanie Warricker
on melanie@ifeelgood.com.za or 072 480
6123. Key dates to remember 12
April: Voting Opens 14
April: Online discussion – Learning from legends. Register here. 
June: Online discussion – Harnessing the sales vision. Register here. 4
June: Voting Closes 5
August: Online discussion – Finding real, workable solutions to grow talent. Register here. 8
September: Awards Announcement. Register here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.