Throughout the course of the pandemic, consumers across the globe have realised vast behavioural shifts relative to their day-to-day lives — second-to-none being the way they shop online. In fact, the Wall Street Journal cited analysts’ estimates that the e-commerce sector grew by roughly 50% during 2020 alone. Indeed, when considering only the US, online purchases during the 2020 holiday season grew by a staggering 32.2%, when compared to the same period of time in 2019. Notably, as consumers demonstrate their increasing preference for online shopping (and spend a record amount of time at home), the way in which people search for products online has evolved as well. According to Google, online searches for cookware increased by 53% from 2019 to 2020 and searches for streaming devices increased by 31% over the same period of time. Additionally, search interest for coffee makers surged to an all-time high in 2020, increasing by more than 33% from 2019. At MyUS, we’re experts at facilitating global access to products from the US, so we set out to create a unique way to compare, and subsequently visualise, global ecommerce trends from 2019 to 2020. To that end, we analysed historical Google search volume data of ~600 popular products, across 189 countries around the globe, to determine the products that were searched at a disproportionately high frequency to determine which country ‘Googled’ the most popular consumer products at the highest rate. Below, our first set of maps compares historical search volume data for the consumer products referenced above for both 2019 and 2020. In addition to comparing the full year’s worth of search volume data for 2019 and 2020, we evaluated global search volume data for the same list of popular products during the holiday shopping season. Below are maps showing the most disproportionately searched products during the holiday season, across each country analysed, examining data from only November and December of 2019 and 2020. To understand global search trends, we didn’t want to simply explore the overall number of searches for any given product, as that data wouldn’t reveal the nuances relative to how an individual country’s consumption habits (searches for products) change over time. Rather, we developed a list of 600 popular products, sourced from a variety of ‘best-of’ and top-selling product lists for both 2019 and 2020.1 The list of popular products was then added to Google’s Keyword Planner to determine historical search volume for each product, across all countries evaluated (there are 189 countries Google provides search volume data on). To even the playing field between smaller countries with lower populations/lower search volume and countries with large populations that have high overall search volume (US, Canada, UK, India, etc.), we determined each product’s percentage of country-specific search volume and then compared that percentage to the percentage of aggregate, worldwide search volume. This allowed us to see the most disproportionately searched product in each country analysed. We had fun taking this unique and entertaining look at global Google search trends, and we sincerely hope you enjoy it as well!  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.