[PARTNER CONTENT] DStv Media Sales is a world-class media sales organisation. As the B2B business within the MultiChoice Group, DMS provides unique and innovative marketing and communication opportunities for advertisers to reach DStv subscribers across multiple platforms. What does future media
look like? The world can fit into
our pockets and global TV trends are not a far reach, they’re now – OUR TRENDS.
True to form, DMS (having ridden many first technological waves) are monitoring
working models through our partners. That’s just a fancy way of saying ‘automation’. Before you get
concerned, this doesn’t mean the end of an era of human resources. It just
means that, like with any kind of
automation –it merely drives a change in skill sets to breed more efficient
results. Naturally, with any innovation, the ecosystem changes. Remember traffic
managers being an imperative part of the chain? The ecosystem renders some
roles become redundant but new parts of the delivery chain are created – who
knew what a social media seeder would be, in 2006? This is how it works:
Buyers
use software and tools to purchase inventory. And it’s already working. Programmatic
trading in TV is going up and globally, broadcasters are selling at least 30%
of TV inventory programmatically. Products, people, and
systems all have to evolve to best serve the customer. We are here to drive
that evolution. Marketers are looking to create value, and this value is not only profit-based
but also based on a higher purpose – adding value to a society that creates
meaningful connections with consumers. The visual medium of TV makes it easier for brands to use our platform
to tell their stories and showcase their purpose. We are looking at more partnership opportunities
with our advertisers. It’s all about value creation for both our businesses. We
are all part of an ecosystem, and we need to sustain this for the future. These
can be joint venture type business models… the creation of advertiser funded
programmes is just the tip of the Iceberg. Data integration is the future. Traditional TV ratings don’t tell the full story of
how many people are watching premium video and adverts. There are so many
variables between time-shifted, on-demand viewing, and streaming content.  Being able to actually measure viewership
allows us to show return on investment to clients. This is where legacy technology and future
technology can merge. When we say legacy – we mean a footprint. Our
relationships and our infrastructure allow us the reach that we need, as well
as the credibility. This, combined with future tech and data, allows us to
truly structure the perfect solution for clients. Globally, no one has cracked this 100 percent. We launched metrics around our sales proposition
called ‘The Video Stack’, and will continue to evolve this. It’s also important
for us to keep educating the market on this topic, so expect to hear a lot more
from us about it. Video Stack – remember that. The ability to show different ads to different households
at the same time. This gives TV an opportunity for more targeting and better
ROI for clients. When planning for addressable
advertising we have to consider the non-connected TV world as well. This is a
mammoth task as it requires integration into current available technology. TV has evolved and will continue to do so.
Technology will enable us to offer solutions in advertising that will ensure
that we have a sustainable business for the future. We will not stand still,
always remain client centric and continuously offer solutions that are clever
and effective. We have to drive change in the industry – it’s the
only way we will thrive WE ARE READY! *Partner content is sponsored. Fahmeeda Cassiem-Surtee is the CEO of DStv Media Sales. Fahmeeda holds a variety of qualifications in media management, strategic marketing, digital transformation, business management, and journalism. Her media experience, passion for people, and love for technology makes her a force to be reckoned with in an industry that is constantly evolving. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.