[SPONSORED PARTNER CONTENT] After many years of being in radio advertising as a salesperson, the question that always comes up in any training session we are part of is, “What do we sell?” OFM sales manager, Anchen Lintvelt, answers this important question. The answers could include: Let’s chat about the third answer: selling whatever our advertisers are selling. These are very powerful words. Think about it. Our business every day is to engage and interact with our audience, our listeners, our current
advertisers, and potential advertisers. We get involved in their businesses. We learn about all
different types of industries. We advise, we learn, we educate, and we create. We become
marketing partners to our clients. We become their marketing managers; their go-to media
gurus. We don’t just sell them advertising space or an audience. We sell their products with them. We
become them. We represent their brands, their beliefs, and their dedication. Radio advertising
is so much more than just getting a deal signed. It’s a road we choose to take every day. It’s the
relationships we build every day. When planning a radio advertising campaign for a client, we have to become one of their
‘employees’. We have to think like them and know their business and their market to
understand what they need, what they want to achieve, and where they want to be. Only then
can we create a campaign that will speak to all of this. The campaign will consist of the right
message, at the right time, for the right audience. We sell their products with the message we
put on radio. Think of a 30-second radio commercial as a trailer to your movie about your business or
product. What images of your business or offering would you like audiences to create in their
minds? Will these images be enough to sell your product? Will it build brand love? Got you thinking, right? With radio advertising, we make every effort to deliver results. We work passionately on every
brand and product of any industry. We get excited about new voiceovers, weird accents, and
quirky copywriters. We role-play scripts to our clients. We become characters in a play. And, at
the end of the day, we feel content – knowing that every commercial on the radio is there for a
reason. It has a purpose. It feeds families and keeps businesses open. It informs audiences and
influences their decisions. It creates jobs. It creates an image. It builds a reputation. It builds
love for a brand. It changes lives. Selling whatever our advertisers are selling… how could we ever run out of ideas? #BestJobInTheWorld OFM is central South Africa’s premier commercial radio station offering a mix of music, news
and entertainment. The station serves the affluent SEM 7-10 economically active marketplace with a broadcast
footprint across the Free State, Northern Cape, southern Gauteng and North West. The brand is
synonymous with the people of Central South Africa, and includes a full spectrum of listeners,
from urban working moms and dads to corporate professionals as well as rural communities and
agricultural producers. OFM offers several niche features – including an agricultural programme, agricultural news
twice a day, entertainment and sports features. Our audience is incredibly loyal and supportive. OFM enjoys one of the highest occurrences of
time spent listening to the radio in South Africa. OFM is part of the Central Media Group, with
its head office is located in Bloemfontein, and with a studio in Welkom. Find more at www.ofm.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.