[PARTNER CONTENT] To celebrate its milestone 70th birthday, DRUM published a special print edition that captures the spirit and soul of one of South Africa’s most iconic magazine brands. The 116-page magazine takes us back in time to the heyday of Sophiatown and the greats of
black culture in our country. It looks at key moments in our history, speaking to people who
were at the forefront of historical shifts, and explores how our worlds have changed in the
past seven decades. Ntate Caiphus Semenya and Mama Letta Mbulu take us into the townships of their youth.
Internationally acclaimed actor John Kani tells us how he felt the first time he saw his name
and face in DRUM, and Ma Lillian Diedericks – one of the women who led the iconic
Women’s March on 9 August 1956 – tells us about that tumultuous time. There are also breathtaking images of powerful protests, a celebration of love with
weddings over the years, fashions through the ages and so much more. This magazine is a must for anyone who wants to share South Africa’s history with their
children or just remember and reflect on how far we’ve come. “The DRUM 70th birthday
magazine isn’t just a trip down memory lane – it’s a celebration of seven decades of telling
people’s stories, the right way,” says Thulani Gqirana, editor of DRUM. “DRUM is part of South Africa’s rich history and with this book, we take you back but also
show you what the future holds for this amazing brand. I hope you enjoy reading it as much
as we enjoyed putting it together.” The publication also showcases DRUM’s evolution from print to digital and how it’s thriving
online, still much-loved by audiences at home and abroad. DRUM 70th anniversary edition is available in major retailers for R49.90. You can also order a copy by emailing shop@drum.co.za or buy a digital version at magzter.com Connect with us on social media: www.facebook.com/drummagazine on Facebook; @DrumMagazine on Twitter and @drum_ magazine on Instagram. Media enquiries can be sent to editor@drum.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.