The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. 13th Annual Bookmark Awards announces 2021 jury chairs and jury panels The IAB SA has announced the 2021 jury panels and their respective chairs. Comprising eight experts in their respective fields, the jury chairs, together with their fellow panel judges, will evaluate and award the latest and greatest in South African digital. This year’s awards will encompass digital advertising and marketing work that falls into eight categories, namely: Marketing; Performance Marketing; Builders; Publisher; Social, Community and Influencer Marketing; Innovative Engineers, Best Digital Student; and Special Honours. The Bookmarks strive for a diverse representation of all South Africans, and, as such, all jury chairs have been nominated by industry members, ensuring that the judging panel is indicative of, and endorsed by, the industry at large. Importantly, this ensures that the winning work – which then serves as a benchmark for excellence – is judged fairly by those with the relevant expertise from a range of agencies, publishers, and companies. The 2021 jury panels and their respective chairs are: The 2021 awards will be led and guided by jury president Andrea Quaye. For more information on the Bookmark Awards, click here. Voting is now live for MOST Awards 2021 In what is an extremely important year to acknowledge and commend the industry, the organisers of MOST are pleased to announce that you can officially vote for the 12th annual MOST Awards, which opens today and will stay live until 4 June 2021. Don’t miss your opportunity to contribute to continued excellence and growth in the industry by completing the Media Owner or Media Agency survey. To access the online survey go to www.themediaonline.co.za and look for the ‘Click here to Vote’ button at the top of the homepage. Or alternatively, visit www.quicklink.co.za/votemost “The MOST Awards continues to gauge the importance and fundamentals of service delivery between buyers and sellers of the media landscape. We’re excited to be opening voting today – the MOST Awards is no less relevant now than it ever has been over the past 12-years,” said Brad Aigner, founder of research outfit, Freshly Ground Insights, which is conducting the survey. The user-friendly, online survey asks respondents to select the companies that they wish to vote for and requires that they are scored against a number of specific performance criteria. Companies are then ranked according to this data. Every vote counts and adds to the sample size – the more votes, the more robust the research results and the more valuable they become for media owners and agencies. For more information or to sponsor the MOST Awards 2021 please contact Melanie Warricker on 072 480 6123 or melanie@ifeelgood.co.za. All together against climate change! Call for applications Young Talents Challenge for Climate and Indian Ocean Forum Since 2018, the UNION has been organising advertising competitions in several countries to gather and highlight the community of young advertising talent from all over the world. The challenge is to create ad campaigns to raise public awareness on current issues and the committee, consisted of influential media managers, will deliver three awards to the best creations. The awarded awareness ad campaigns will then be released in our partner media network: print, radio, television, outdoor displays and digital media. The 2021 topic is Climate: The Air We Need, and aims to raise awareness on global warming issues and enable young talents to join forces to promote actions against climate change. The objectives of the challenge are: Young Talents Challenge for Climate will be held from May 18 to May 21 in Reunion Island and virtually. For more, visit here. Time is running out for Cannes Lions entries Submit by 15 April to benchmark your work at the Cannes Lions Awards. A friendly team of Awards Experts know the Lions inside out. They’re available to help you with your submission, so get in touch with last-minute questions. Download the Entry Kit for a selection of handy materials to help you complete your submissions. If you are concerned that you won’t meet the final deadline, please get in touch. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.