You cannot simply enter the MOST Awards. It is essential to be listed with researchers Freshly Ground Insights. The raison d’etre of the MOST Awards is to recognise
and celebrate media owners and media agencies that have delivered the best
service performance. Media agency employees are invited to rate the performance
of the media owner sales teams with whom they have frequent contact, and vice
versa. Voting goes live on 12 April 2021 and
runs to 4 June 2021. The user-friendly, online survey asks respondents to
select the companies that they wish to vote for, scoring them against a number
of specific performance criteria. Companies are then ranked according to this
data. Every vote counts and adds to the sample size  ̶  the more votes, the more robust the research
results. The MOST Awards
were postponed in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But it is back in 2021
with a solid vote of confidence from media agencies and media owners, saying it
was “mandatory” that the awards take place this year. Exciting
additions to the 2021 MOST Awards Each year before the MOST Awards
survey is opened for voting, a focus group is held to review the robustness and
relevance of the research design through a consultative process with media
industry stakeholders. After careful consideration of the suggestions made in
the focus groups from both Cape Town and Johannesburg representatives earlier
this year, the following changes will be implemented: * There will be no tie breaks
In the past a tie-break methodology was used in cases where voting was
extremely close. The change was actioned in a few years ago, and will remain in
place, even in cases where voting is divided by as little as 0.1%, a clear
winner will be declared. *Media Agency survey (completed by media owners)
In 2019, a Category Specialist segment was added to the media agencies
listings, but after careful consideration, we will keep to the original format
of the award: – Full-Service Media Agencies –
defined as companies that offer their own in-house media planning AND media
buying service across MORE than one media category. – Specialist Media Agencies – defined
as companies that offer their own in-house media planning OR media buying
service or focus on only one media category. – And then of course, how could
we not acknowledge how the work from home and virtual sales environment has
affected all agencies and owners, and their respective teams? This new way of working has had
an enormous impact on media owners and agencies, which is why there will be a
‘virtually perfect service award’ in 2021. Details to follow soon! To ensure your company is listed, please email brada@fgi.co.za and nicolec@fgi.co.za Sponsorship sales for the 2021 MOST Awards are open and a variety
of sponsorship packages are available. Sponsorship of specific awards can be
packaged to include online advertising before, during and after the awards
announcement, plus fun, creative and enduring activations during the awards. For more information or to sponsor the MOST Awards 2021 please
contact Melanie Warricker on melanie@ifeelgood.co.za or 072 480 6123. Key dates to remember Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.