The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: RAPT Creative wins business in Europe, opens offices in the UK and Ukraine On the back of substantial new business won in Europe at the end of 2020, RAPT Creative has opened satellite offices in the United Kingdom (London) and Ukraine (Kiev). RAPT’s presence in Europe will be overseen by the agency’s head of strategy & consumer insight, Genevieve van Vuuren, who is based in London. A strategic, innovative and
executional through-the-line agency specialising in concept development,
digital, point-of-sale, PR, live event production and activation, RAPT was
appointed by the Export and Licence division of Molson Coors Beverage Company
(MCB) as the experiential, activation and concept creative agency for Miller
Genuine Draft, Coors Lager and Staropromen in Europe, Africa and parts of Asia. From inception, the agency
has had a vision of being a proudly South African company that takes on the
world in its own backyard. “We are really pleased with the MCB win, as it gives us a toe in the door for future work in Europe and Asia,” said RAPT managing director, Garreth van Vuuren. “The agency was founded on the philosophy of being the ‘anti-agency agency’ and flipped the way client-agency relationships history work … a philosophy rooted in wanting to do cool shit with cool people.” People moves Eclipse Communications appoints Ayesha
Abrahams Ayesha Abrahams has joined Eclipse
Communications, deployed to the fashion, beauty, home and entertainment
business unit as a senior account director, reporting into group account director,
Kate Thompson-Duwe. She has a National Diploma in Public
Relations Management from Cape Peninsula University of Technology and
completed a Fashion Styling Course from Pippa Lynch Fashion Styling. Abrahams has over a decade of
experience in the PR and marketing industry, in almost every consumer area
including beauty, fashion, food and lifestyle. Her experience ranges across brands such as
Woolworths, Five Roses Tea, House of Coffees, Spur Corporation, Kellogg’s South
Africa, Old Mutual, etc. Kelly
Davis joins Eclipse Communications Kelly Davis has taken on the role of senior
account manager at Eclipse Communications. She is based in Johannesburg
and has joined the consumer and lifestyle business unit, reporting into head of
strategy, Natasha Kleyn. Davis has a Bachelor of Arts
in Psychology and Criminology from UNISA as well as a Bachelor of Arts in Media
and Psychology from the New School For Public Engagement, New York City. She started her PR career at a fashion and lifestyle
PR firm in NYC and went on to run the PR department of a home textile
company in LA. Upon her return to SA she has worked on
clients including Nashua, Huawei, Konica Minolta, Protex,
Colgate and MSD Pharmaceuticals, among others. Business moves Long-standing partners,
Mastercard and Uber extend their partnership Uber’s long-term
partnership with Mastercard continues to grow with a new strategic initiative
focusing on digital payments and advancing financial inclusions which will be
facilitated by Mastercard across the Middle East and Africa (MEA). As a regional first, the
partnership with Mastercard will enable Uber to drive digitisation across their
business operations, leveraging Mastercard’s single infrastructure to meet all
types of payments needs across Uber Rides, Uber Eats, Uber Pass, and Uber for
Business. It is intended that the
partnership will boost cashless payments, drive digital payment acceptance,
reward loyalty, while supporting Uber’s continued social impact collaboration. The Economy 2021 report released by Mastercard
notes that the economic impact of COVID-19 has introduced permanent changes in
digital consumer spending habits, growth of online banking, fintech disruption
and opportunities to boost financial inclusion. Through the partnership,
both companies can bridge the financial inclusion gap through a broad range of
efforts. gfknewron 2.0: exciting new
features to boost product revenue and take market share Up
to now, brands have had to spend 80% of their time sorting through the reams of
market data, leaving just 20% of their time for the critical decision-making
off the back of that data. gfknewron has flipped that around. Driven by
powerful AI that is continuously validated by GfK’s experts, it gives instant
access to GfK’s independent, predictive analytics for tech consumer goods
across 27 countries – and counting. Clients are using gfknewron to cut through
the market noise and find signals that show what is coming. The latest features in a
continuing path of upgrades now help GfK’s clients improve their marketing and
trade spend, and inject a significantly improved KPI-driven drumbeat into their
commercial organizations. Peter Feld, GfK’s CEO,
said: “gfknewron 2.0 is a milestone in our transformation into a provider of
AI-enabled intelligence ‘at your fingertips’, together with consultancy, within
tech consumer goods. Over the past two years, we have worked hand in hand with
our clients to create a revolutionary tool ready to propel growth for our
clients. Launching at a time when worldwide disruption has torn up normal market
patterns, many of our top clients are already using it to see what’s coming and
move fast in taking decisions for sustainable business growth.” BIC partners with Teko Modise for Flex
2 shaver launch BIC partnered with
former football star and sports analyst, Teko Modise, to launch its new Flex 2
shaver in South Africa. As part of this partnership, the renowned football star
will become the face of the new two-blade shaver and an ambassador of the
brand. The brand chose to
partner with Teko for the launch of its new razor as he is someone who is
always on the go and needs the right razor to match his pace. Teko recently tried the
BIC Flex 2 razor and was pleasantly surprised by the results. “I am very
excited to be partnering with BIC on the launch of their new razor. I’ve seldom
used different brands and my skin didn’t always have the best reaction. I have
put the BIC Flex 2 blades to the test and I am very impressed with how it
performed. I believe that shaving should not be a tiresome experience and the
right shaver can leave skin feeling smooth giving men the confidence they need
to go out and achieve their dreams.” Further Together: Vodacom
celebrates collaborative power of technology and human ambition As the world transitions
to recovering from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, Vodacom is celebrating
what the human spirit can achieve when combined with technology. With the
announcement of a new brand tagline, ‘Further Together’ it places the emphasis
on how – through partnerships and collaboration – it is possible to connect
everyone to the digital economy so that no one is left behind, says Balesh
Sharma, managing director Vodacom South Africa. ‘Further Together’ echoes
Vodacom’s Africa.Connected stakeholder engagement approach, which identifies
public-private partnerships as a key cornerstone of continued success in the
digitalisation of the continent. Strong collaboration will build a future that
is fair, inclusive and sustainable. Boomtown’s new campaign for Maxeco celebrates 30 years – 10-million
pairs – of iconic safety footwear South Africa’s iconic
safety footwear brand, Maxeco, celebrates 30 years – and 10-million pairs – of
protecting the country’s hardworking workforce with a new campaign from Nelson
Mandela Bay agency, Boomtown. Maxeco’s owner, Lemaitre,
is a pioneer of South Africa’s safety footwear industry. In 1991, it used its
first direct injection moulding machine to create Maxeco, the first
double-density PU1 safety boot to be manufactured in the
country. “Since then, Maxeco has
gone on to become South Africa’s number one selling safety footwear brand.
Across construction sites, mines, farms and factories, almost 10 million pairs
have helped realise the dream of a stronger South Africa by protecting the millions
of workers who built it. That’s no small feat,” punned Boomtown’s CEO, Glen
Meier. “The campaign asks the
question ‘Is Maxeco the most beautiful shoe in the country?’ To look at it, the
answer is obviously ‘no’, because safety footwear and style don’t often go hand
in hand. However, given Maxeco’s pioneering spirit, there’s more to it than
meets the eye,” Meier explained. The Unlimited reveals new corporate identity To change is to undergo
transformation. As a brand that looks into the future, aiming to unlimit
people’s lives, The Unlimited realised that their corporate identity was not an
accurate reflection of who they are. This philosophy of being unlimited even
extends to the very nature of their business: The Unlimited is unconstrained by
a product category. Integrated brand and
communications group Joe Public United’s strategic
brand design team, Joe Public Shift, was tasked to
create a new identity that would capture the essence of a brand as captivating, arresting
and disruptive as The Unlimited. “We knew we had to think outside
the box and take a completely unconventional approach to this rebranding
project. The new brand identity needed to be built off the principles
behind this business – whose representation pays homage to the core reason they
exist – to unlimit people’s lives long into the future while always challenging
the status quo. We got it right,” commented Terri-Leigh Cassel, Joe Public
Shift’s managing partner. Emerging from Joe Public’s Cape Town agency, The
Unlimited’s new identity is a perfect representation of who they are. The new
font is bold, unapologetic and uncompromising, it reflects The Unlimited’s
authentic challenger narrative of being completely ‘un’. All the
weights and styles have been merged into one variable font, making it
completely unique and allows The Unlimited to express however and whatever they feel. TCS Embarks on a new
brand direction Tata Consultancy Services
(TCS) (BSE: 532540, NSE: TCS), a global IT services, consulting & business
solutions organisation, has unveiled a new brand statement, ‘Building
on Belief’, to articulate its mission and relationship with
customers as it embarks on its next decade of transformation-led growth. The new brand vision
encapsulates the active and collaborative role that TCS plays in partnering
with customers over the long term, leveraging its contextual knowledge,
investments in research and innovation, and technology expertise to help them
grow, and achieve their purpose-led transformation goals. It also reflects TCS’
own belief that it, along with its customers, can harness collective knowledge
to innovate in ways that result in better futures for individuals, communities
and the planet. Making moves Canon South
Africa pledges support for Yes4youth The YES initiative is the perfect embodiment of Canon’s corporate
philosophy of Kyosei and the spirit of cooperation, said Canon South Africa’s
human resources director, Christine Masinga. Thanks to the
Youth Employment Service (YES), which was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa
in 2018, business is now becoming the most powerful driver of transformation
and growth for the great reset. By creating critical work experience for young
people around the country, it’s already resulted in over 50 000 work
experiences for previously unemployed youths and deployed over R2.8 billion
into the economy. “The YES
initiative is important to Canon,” said HR director, Christine Masinga. “As an
organisation, one of our core drivers is sustainability. A programme like YES
promotes skills development and youth employment, which ultimately helps to
alleviate poverty and unemployment. It’s an inspiring initiative that’s meant
to drive long-term economic and societal change.” As part of its
annual pledge, Canon South Africa has partnered with LFP Training for the
implementation of the YES programme. This year, 33 youths have been selected to
receive the training and support to start them on their journey towards
building a successful career and better future. Invitation to submit
proposals for the NFVF/Netflix Micro Budget Films Project. The National Film and
Video Foundation (NFVF), an agency of the Department of Sport Arts and Culture
and Netflix, in association with Indigenous Film Distribution, are calling for
micro-budget film proposals. This collaboration looks to create new
opportunities for emerging filmmakers in the local film industry after many
productions have had to cancel or postpone due to Covid-19 and the nationwide
lockdown. The aim of this fund is to help alleviate the pressure filmmakers
face to raise funding and will assist in the alleviation of low job creation
currently faced by the sector. This partnership will
fund 6 micro-budget feature films at 100% of the production budgets. Specific
attention will be paid to creatives who have at least two short films and
venturing into their first and second time as feature writers, directors and
producers. Preference will be given to compelling, character-driven narratives
in genres that are original and demonstrate a filmmaker’s unique vision. Films
should also be culturally-authentic with a global appeal. All projects should be at
final stages of development. Applications will close on 07 May 2021. Kindly email all application queries to Applications@nfvf.co.za and all content queries to Refiloe Hlabioa at refiloeh@nfvf.co.za or Nadine Cloete at nadinec@nfvf.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.