The much-anticipated first wave of Marketing Research Foundation’s Marketing All Product Survey (MAPS) data has rolled in – despite the challenges wrought by the global pandemic and continued uncertainty in local markets. The
findings complement the currency research done by bodies such as the BRC, PRC,
OMC and the IAB SA. CEO of the MRF, Johann Koster, says MAPS is “is independent and transparent research with no commercial vested
interests”. Koster headed the former South Africa Audience
Research Foundation (SAARF) which last issued All Media Product Survey (AMPS)
data back in 2016. The MAP survey was designed to take up where AMPS left off,
but has been “refreshed and reengineered to provide marketers and agencies with
data of strategic relevance”, says Koster. “We’ve kept the best of AMPS but have added many new
elements such as purchasing behaviour, insights into decision-making, brand
loyalty, time spent on activities, average expenditure and media interaction.
We’ve also enhanced certain sections such as the financial, retail and home
DIY,” he points out. Koster says media currencies are measured by media
owners and primarily serve media owner needs. MAPS, on the other hand, focuses
on information that is critical to marketers and agencies. The intention of
MAPS is to be consumer centric. Nevertheless, the MRF has left the door open to
collaboration with other researchers. “Everyone is talking about fusion, so when we
reengineered AMPS into MAPS, we ensured that MAPS has sufficient hooks to
enable the integration of MAPS into other studies, he says. “Subscribers are
therefore able to integrate MAPS into their bespoke research.” The scope of MAPS insights is broadened vastly from
what AMPS delivered, Koster says. “MAPS is an ever-evolving survey which is tailored to
the needs of marketers and agencies. So as the industry changes, so will the
survey,” he explains. “But this does not mean that users will not be able to
trend – they will. But it is important that we stay abreast of the changing
consumer; unfortunately AMPS was unable to do this. MAPS will be released on a quarterly basis with a
rolling sample.  By doing this a user can
track changes.” Another advantage is MAPS is geocoded, “which means
that we have the exact geographical coordinates for every interviewee and
subscribers can integrate the data with their geospatial applications to gain
even more insights”, Koster says. This wave of MAPS data
encompasses the six-month period of July to December 2020. The sample size was
10 024, representing a base population (15+ years old) of 42 573 129. Distribution
spread (weighted) across South Africa comprised 45% metro, 30% urban and 24% rural
representing 17.2 million households with an average of 3.6 people per
household. The data indicated slightly more women, at 52%, than men at 48%. Some key findings: For the first time, the MAPS financial section researched stokvels. It shows that 10% of the population belong to Stokvels with 8% belonging to at least one. “Stokvels are a major part of the South African economy, but there has
been no insight into the who and what of stokvel members,” says Koster. “We now
know from MAPS that more than 4 million people in SA participate in stokvels.
That is a significant amount of consumers utilising non-traditional means for
investment. MAPS also provides insights on who the typical stokvel user is, how
stokvels are used and for what purpose.” The second wave of the MAPS
will also incorporate a six-month fieldwork
period collecting data from 10 000 face-to-face interviews and 5 000
branded diaries. It will build on the first wave by adding to the respondent
base and providing the ability to do more in-depth analyses. Covid-19 is still a factor in the research as it will
be for some time. Under lockdown level five, the MRF was uncertain if it would
be able to “get MAPS off the ground”. But once restrictions were lifted and interviewers could move into areas,
fieldwork with face-to-face interviews began. “All Covid-19 protocols were followed with majority of
interviews taking place outside respondents’ homes. Provision was made for
additional interview points in the sampled EAs (Enumeration Areas) in the event
of a refusal for interview,” Koster explains. Of course, 2020 had an enormous impact on consumers,
something that has to be taken into account when accessing wave one data. “Media consumption was quite different in April and
May 2020, and this could be seen in the audience jump on TV plus of course
online consumption increased dramatically. You can see this is in the currency
data that was released during this period,” Koster says. “Income changed – people lost their jobs, had their
salaries reduced.  We stopped travelling
and the way we shopped and what we bought changed. The sampling methodology is
area stratified, multi-stage probability sampling. Very technical term but what
that means is that the sampling design ensures that the sample is
representative of the population.” What surprised Koster most about the data gleaned from
the MAPS? MAPS provides the ability to track population movement
between areas such as metro, urban and rural as well as inter-provincial
movement.,” he says. “With only half the full data set available, we are
already seeing some interesting developments in this area with age specific
movement between provinces and areas. Time will tell if these are developing
trends, Covid related or result of some other short term phenomenon.” There are some interesting insights around consumer
behaviour and brand loyalty. “For example, only 26% of MAPS respondent claims
to always go to the same supermarket when buying groceries- 21% for when they
buy toiletries. Also, 5% of respondents claim to buy groceries online. These
are powerful insights to retailers and brands alike and the ability to track
these attributes and behaviours over time will be invaluable,” Koster adds. And industry reaction to the findings? “Great excitement to once again have single source insights which give a broad landscape view of consumers and markets.” See the MAPS presentation here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.