The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Ads24 opens up a new advertising world for media agencies and owners The media sector
continues to operate within a faltering economy which led to an 8% drop in
total advertising spend in 2020 over 2019. Google and Facebook have
aggressively grown their share of market spend and ADvTECH continues to disrupt
the way we transact, deliver and measure the efficacy of advertising campaigns.
Against this backdrop media owners have had to dig deep, keep staff motivated,
agency relationships strong, and deliver new products that meet high client
expectations. A prime example of
tackling these challenges has resulted in innovation from Media24, who some
years back, took stock of their array of media assets and began developing a
multi-platform sales strategy to address the needs of agencies and clients.
This move focused on the power of multi-platforms to ensure reach while the
more recent development of Advertiser Funded Programmes (AFPs) offers the
market an innovative and collaborative approach to creating content that is
both trustworthy and impactful. Ads24 has made deep and meaningful changes to how and what they sell and how they deliver against client expectations. Armed with an offering of multi-platforms across brands and AFPs, the sales team is finding doors are opening and agencies and clients enthuse about the opportunity to reach mass markets using multiple touch points, plus the prospect of working with Ads24 and their Content Hub to create messaging that will appear across trusted media environments. Tian Liebenberg, business development manager: inland and AFP, has a decade of experience in selling Ads24 brands, says: “This allows us to have a conversation with agencies and their clients that goes way beyond circulation and a single platform sale, to a discussion around reaching communities using multiple touch points and exceeding reach expectations. And to do this without being prescriptive, the nuance lies in our listening skills.” The multi-platform offering covers four segments, Local, Mass, Afrikaans and Sunday audiences, and over 30 platforms across Television, Print, Digital and Content Marketing, while Advertising Funded Platforms (AFPs) offer a collaborative approach to suit client objectives and budgets. With an emphasis on maintaining content credibility and using the best skills to deliver projects, media strategists and planners are looping in clients and other agencies such as PR and Digital. Samantha Africa, business development manager coastal and digital, is upbeat: “Our full-service integrated solutions which are omni-platform and across brands, now include AFPs which set us apart from Google and Facebook, clients see the value in a multifaceted approach, and appreciate the fact that our content is trusted and will resonate with communities. In addition to reach, frequency and impact we can illustrate how brands care and give back, with content that touches the heart strings of our mass audiences. We make the sales process easy by involving all interested parties – from us to agency to client and back – and we offer compelling content across trusted environments. “ People moves From ‘caged’ to becoming ‘Free Range
Humans’, two SA women share journey in new global series Free Range Humans,an original, digital content series from
Corona Studios, is airing on YouTube. The series follows eight extraordinary
people – including two South Africans – who left their unfulfilling indoor
lives to follow their passions and live an authentic, purpose-driven life close
to nature. The launch of Free Range Humans showed Clifford Young being released from a giant glass box where he had spent 15 hours a day for five days, living his life indoors and online, symbolic of a “caged” modern lifestyle. The other actors, Amahle Mtengenya and Nina Erasmus, who were also “boxed” in similar circumstances in Sandton City and Fourways Mall, respectively, were also released. Starring Mzansi’s first black free diving instructor, Zandile Ndhlovu, and Cape foodie forager, Roushanna
Gray, in Free Range Humansboth share
how they disconnected from their previous careers and turned their passions
into a fulfilling, outdoor, lifestyle. “Most of us spend 90% of our lives indoors and online, missing out
on so much that life has to offer. Lately this has been felt even more keenly
and has caused people to question their way of life. It’s resulted in a global
phenomenon where people want to find ways to disconnect from routine and reconnect
with nature while living their lives & passions with purpose. The first
season of Free Range Humans is about eight people who have done just
that,” says Corona Africa Marketing Manager, Melanie Nicholson. All
eight episodes of Free Range Humans from Corona Studios can be viewed on Corona’s YouTube channel
and other social platforms starting today at coronaafrica.com and YouTube.com/Corona​. Local female firefighter
featured in global film, shatters gender stereotypes Content marketing
specialists, Fell + Co, have celebrated the global launch of ‘Her Way’, a short
film for Salomon’s International WMN campaign. Taking just over a year to
produce, while navigating cross-border Covid-19 challenges, the film celebrates
three incredible and humble women from South Africa, New Zealand and the United
States of America. From completely different cultures and backgrounds, these
women are brought together through one common trait – their determination to do
things their way. Born in the small town of Beaufort West, South Africa, Vuyiseka Arendse began volunteering as a firefighter when she was 19. Now 26, the single mother and family breadwinner works for the NCC in Cape Town as a member of the Juliet Crew, the first-ever all-female firefighting team in the country, protecting local landmarks from wildfires in the Western Cape region. The concept evolved from
the 2019 Salomon WMN campaign, whereby women were displaying their defiance of
common stereotypes. This year’s campaign focuses on sharing real stories of
women who simply lived as though these stereotypes did not exist. Capturing
this in a documentary style was crucial in relaying an authentic message that
women could truly get behind. Royal Flush for Sandi Burger
as she bids farewell to Wild Coast Sun after 35 years Three generations of
guests have come through the doors of the Wild Coast Sun on the Eastern Cape
border since Sandi Burger started working at the Resort in 1986, and it’s these
faces that the PR and promotions manager will miss most when she retires at the
end of April 2021. “First the fathers came,
they brought their sons, and now come with their grandsons. Our regular clients
make Wild Coast Sun like a big family, and it’s like a reunion on an on-going
basis,” Burger said. Her journey with the
Resort started in 1986 as promotions secretary. “I came from an advertising
agency in Johannesburg but was already familiar with the area as my family had
a holiday home on the South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal,” Burger explained. With such a long work
history at the property, Burger has held various roles, including promotions
coordinator, working for the convention centre and also inside the casino as
MVG and Gaming Promotions Manager, before becoming the complex promotions
manager, and later, the marketing manager. Business moves AdFreeway launches
Advertising Cohorts in South Africa Digitalpioneers, Kevin Bermeister (think Skype and Kazaa) and Johannes (Jo) Booysen (Yonder), have partnered to launch what they believe is the next evolution in digital advertising – AdFreeway. AdFreeway is a platform that rewards everyone in the digital advertising journey. For the
first time, audience ethics are addressed in a model where data is directly
acquired from the consumer and doesn’t belong to
the platform. Combining the best of
both worlds, AdFreeway
has created a user cohort paradigm where audiences who engage with online
advertising – by means of a thumbs up or down vote – are rewarded for their
input and the performance value they bring, through a universal cohort to
global advertising campaigns. These rewards are redeemed (after registration)
via the AdFreeway platform and come in various different guises – cash,
product, free airtime, substantial discounts etc. The SA know-how that powers fundraising at the 125th Boston Marathon When GivenGain, a global
leader in cross-border crowdfunding for non-profits, was named the official
fundraising partner of the Boston Marathon recently, the team rightfully
celebrated a stunning achievement 20 years in the making. The story has much for South Africans to enjoy too.
GivenGain was founded by two South African entrepreneurs and maintains its most
active office in Stellenbosch, supporting SA charities with the help of a
growing global army of fundraisers and cutting-edge platform innovations
developed in partnership with global events like the Boston Marathon. It all started with a dream
shared by brothers Johannes and Jaco van Eeden in 2001. “As the sons of a pastor we wanted to put into
practice what we were taught – that it is more blessed to give than to
receive,” says Johannes, co-founder and member of the GivenGain Foundation
Board. “Then, when Jaco needed to send money back home from the US, where he
was working as a young graduate, we knew we had the beginnings of an idea.” Today, the GivenGain
platform is registered as a non-profit foundation in Switzerland and has teams
working from Stellenbosch, Villars-sur-Ollon in Switzerland, London and
Detroit. Its service benefits charities in 81 countries and events in 29,
supported by donors and fundraisers in 194. Disney launches Ultimate Princess Celebration in partnership with Casual
Day The Walt Disney Company
Africa has launched the Ultimate Princess Celebrationin South Africa,
joining the global year-long event spotlighting the courage and kindness these
Disney heroines and their stories inspire in fans of all ages. To kick off the
celebration, a new, empowering short storybook collection, will be released.
Entitled Tales of Courage and Kindness, the 14 original stories feature
unique illustrations by artists from around the world and demonstrate how the
Disney Princesses, as well as Queens Anna and Elsa, exemplify these qualities,
each in her own way. Seeking to inspire them to create a kinder world, Tales
of Courage and Kindness is being gifted to
kids and families and will be available for free download, beginning
today through the end of August at DisneyPrincessStories.co.za. “Disney stories are
timeless, and while each Disney Princess character has her own admirable
qualities, courage and kindness connect them all,” says Luke Roberts, General
Manager, Consumer Products, Games and Publishing, The Walt Disney Company
Africa. “We hope that Tales of Courage and Kindness, our collaboration
with Casual Day as well as the many other planned initiatives in the Ultimate
Princess Celebration, will help inspire audiences to celebrate and share
these qualities, all helping to create a kinder world.” Deezer’s new embeddable widget player adds instant audio to any website Deezer has launched its
new online
widget player for mobile websites and desktop. Whether you’re a
website publisher, artist or just looking for a new way to share music, the
move makes it easy to integrate audio into online and social content. The
player has been revamped with brand new features and users are able to
favourite and share any tracks, podcasts, playlists and albums. “Whether you’re an artist
promoting an album, or a die-hard music lover that wants to share an amazing
track, our customised widgets are designed to help you get heard. All you need
to follow is our simple three-step process to embed any widget of your choice.
The only hard part is deciding what you want to share and preview,” said
Nicolas Pinoteau, Director of Partnership Solutions at Deezer. To
start including the widget into your articles, blogs and posts, simply head to widget.deezer.com. LMX collaborates with CAASie.co to accelerate adoption of automated
and audience-driven OOH Location Media Xchange (LMX), the
supply-side arm of the Moving Walls Group, has announced their partnership with
CAASie.co, an Australian-built online ad platform, to accelerate the adoption
of automated audience-driven Out-of-Home (OOH). The
collaboration brings together two of the most innovative companies in the OOH
space, bringing
end-to-end OOH of home buying experience to SME and agencies. LMX will enable CAASie.co’s self-serve
OOH marketplace and provide advertisers with global access to an inventory of
more than 35 000 screens across Southeast Asia. The outdoor advertising industry was
heavily impacted by Covid-related lockdowns, driving one of the oldest ad
formats into the digital age. It has nudged stakeholders into adopting data and
technology platforms that help link media spends to outcomes, which is a
standard for its online counterpart. VRJAM & Winter Music Conference announce the WMCV
new music showcase VRJAM and Winter Music Conference have announced a partnership that will offer DJs and producers from across the globe the opportunity to perform as part of WMC’s prestigious WMCV New Music Showcase, a platform for both established and emerging to present their music to the world. Globally recognised electronic music culture platform
EDM.com have joined as the official media partners for the WMCV Music Programme
and will be working closely with the WMCV team to help bring The New Music
Showcase to life. As a part of the first ever digital edition of Winter Music Conference, which takes place on 20th and 21st May; a fascinating array of live music performances from some of the world’s hottest artists and labels will be streamed live to the web using next generation VR technology provided by VRJAM. VRJAM’s VR music venue and content platform, 5th Dimension, will be used as the official (virtual) venue for the WMCV New Music Showcase, which goes live over two days via Twitch and inside VR Making
moves A billion ways to save endangered colour Endangered Colour is an OPPO campaign supporting National Geographic Society and its
wildlife conservation efforts along with a content series created by Joel
Sartore, National Geographic photographer. Through a series of images and short
films captured on the OPPO Find X3 Pro, audiences can experience nature from a
new perspective and discover a world full of unimaginable colour. Each Endangered Colour
episode focuses on a single colour – red, green, or blue; and celebrates nine
species at risk of extinction. From the brilliant fur of the red panda to the
bright blue skin of the poison dart frog, it is hard to imagine life without
these spectacular colour. The rate of species extinction is alarming, and we
are fast-losing these incredible scenes in the wild. Through raw and
unfiltered, billion-colour footage, Endangered Colour brings the true colour
and textures of nature to life with 100 percent accuracy, preserving them far
into the future. OPPO supports National
Geographic’s mission to protect the health of the planet. As part of the
Endangered Colour campaign, OPPO will donate USD $500,000 to National
Geographic Society to help support the National Geographic Society’s wildlife
conservation efforts at large including Photo Ark* and the Photo Ark EDGE
Fellowship*. Channeling your CSI spend
through the MAMAS There is no doubt thatCorporate Social Investment (CSI) has become an intrinsic part of today’s
business environment. A well planned, thorough, and effective CSI programme can
not only result in tremendous lasting impact for communities around South
Africa but is also a key component and critical differentiator for any company. According to the Trialogue Business in Society Handbook
released in November 2020, South African companies spent an estimated R10.7
billion on CSI in the 2020 financial year. Many companies might not
have the capacity to manage their CSI spend in-house and might also be unaware
of the option to collaborate with reputable CSI Agencies such as MAMAS
Alliance, who can manage the whole CSI process from start to finish. “We welcome corporate South Africa to engage with us, to work with us to better the lives of our children and youth while providing a service to take care of all your CSI logistics. This truly is a winning partnership, with the ultimate winner being a South African child in need,” says Magali Malherbe, managing director of MAMAS Alliance. What makes this organisation unique is that it works at no cost, with a guarantee to all companies that 100% of the funds invested in a CSI project go directly to the intended NGO, and subsequently the intended beneficiary. The ability of MAMAS Alliance to work at no cost is possible because the costs are borne by Children’s Fund MAMAS, a Dutch charity that has been co-funding dozens of childcare organisations across South Africa since 2000. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.