Martech and adtech are increasingly essential driving forces in achieving business objectives. Now, more
than ever, there is a clear demand for responsible and accountable spending on
advertising, with insightful and attributable reporting. Rapid digital
transformation, often led by global alignment and empowered by local consumer
behaviour, has spurred on the desire to invest heavily in martech and adtech –
but to what extent and in which order of priority need to be defined clearly. Looking
back, it is safe to say that programmatic adoption in South Africa has boomed
over the past few years. Although implementation is now arguably on par with
our European counterparts, the initial resistance to early adoption and lack of
immediate interest from the C-suite have resulted in a potential negative
longer-term impact whereby certain businesses are now scrambling to adopt a
survival approach (induced by the extreme changes brought as a result of
lockdowns), rather than having the ease of effective execution, knowledge and
experience that only come with years of gradual up-skilling and understanding. In turn, early
pioneers in South Africa have now risen to leading positions within their
respective industry categories, armed with a depth of understanding around the
actionable strategies being used to future-proof organisations with a
comprehensive suite of tools and platforms. If technology-driven media buying
is the metaphorical arrow in this case, then a solid, integrated martech and
adtech stack is the quiver – the essential driving force in achieving business
(not just marketing) objectives. Understanding
martech deployment:
Most organisations in SA now fully comprehend the need to invest in managing
the accessibility and durability of all their data across departments. The
challenges faced include cost involved (with Covid-19 pressure now applied) and
a clear understanding of the most relevant adoption approach. Decision
makers: The
decision to invest in technologies such as a robust customer data platform
(CDP), for example, is often made at executive level with less input from the
individuals who would essentially utilise these technologies, and thus could
potentially guide far better implementation and functionality. It is vitally
important to consider extensive external use cases for these solutions and not
only internal functions, like a typical CRM would. Data
accessibility: With
the much discussed and deliberated looming sunset of customer tracking through
third-party cookies, as well as increasing pressure to become compliant in
accordance with the likes of the General Data Protection Regulation and the
Protection of Personal Information Act, a cohesive marketing touchpoint
strategy that facilitates cross-channel customer interaction will now only be
possible with a CDP or similar tool that allows you to centralise your audience
strategy. Receptiveness
to progressive solutions: Extreme
changes in consumer behaviour have encouraged decision makers to fast track the
adoption of new technologies and aligned strategies that can revive and
ultimately safeguard their businesses from future pitfalls. Technologies such
as media measurement and marketing intelligence tools and the insights they
provide can answer many of the questions businesses face today, playing a
central role in addressing fundamental transformation objectives – quite
literally saving businesses. Advisory
services: If one
merely starts by taking a bird’s-eye view of the martech landscape, it can be a
highly overwhelming and daunting experience, with thousands and thousands of
top global vendors listed across a plethora of categories. Therefore,
most leading organisations have turned to consultancies and advisories that are
aimed at empowering them to guide their investment strategies, optimise their
marketing and advertising activities, and improve their overall customer
experience with a cohesive touchpoint strategy. These advisories, like Carbon1,
can evaluate and assemble the right technology and people, identify gaps, and
streamline the management of the accessibility of data, defining the path to
achieving ambitious business and marketing objectives. Tangible results: By deploying the most suitable martech solutions, organisations can gain an extremely in-depth understanding of their clients. By leveraging multiple data points captured during the normal course of customer interactions and through the likes of comprehensive loyalty programmes, they can create advanced marketing and advertising strategies that give them a previously unobtainable level of influence over each individual shopper’s path to purchase. Organisations can now determine who to target, where to target them, how often and with what – and ultimately deliver targeted and personalised messaging accordingly. Executing
strategy adjustments informed by these insights is critical when looking to
implement fundamental changes for the better, increase ROI and maintain a
healthy ecosystem of customer information that feeds back into the funnel and
other business systems in a controlled environment, while keeping data privacy
at the forefront of these initiatives. With the highly publicised decline of print media and the migration of consumers en masse online, the struggles of large retailers are hard to ignore. There is, however, an ever-growing silver lining to this dark cloud in the fact that smart retailers have the power to bring large volumes of shopper data together from an array of sources including loyalty programmes, point-of-sale data and e-commerce properties. On-boarding,
matching, and segmenting these data points together have unlimited potential to
give a clear and granular overview of incredibly valuable shopper data. These
consumer audiences are of great importance to brands when it comes to
understanding who they need to reach and when/where it would be best to reach
them. Even more extensive consumer marketing relationships between retailers and suppliers are on the horizon, where business objectives are married with exact targeting, incorporating the likes of brands’ first-party data and previous campaign data to deliver a true omnichannel solution with measurable results, leading to the establishment of fully fledged retail media units, powered by martech and adtech. An edited version of this story was first published in The Media Yearbook 2021. You can download the magazine here. After spending over 15 years in the trenches of digital marketing, leading multiple teams to achieving record-breaking revenue figures, winning numerous awards and playing a pivotal role in a number of highly successful mergers and acquisitions, Joe Steyn-Begley has recently spearheaded the launch of Carbon1 out of renowned digital specialist, Mark1. Carbon1 is a purpose-driven Marketing Technology advisory backed by a collective intelligence of the most highly skilled industry professionals. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.