In times of crisis and great flux, radio continues to provide trusted information, entertainment and a sense of routine. We’ve
learned a great deal about Covid-19, and it’s hard to believe that just seven
months ago, the stockpiling of food, alcohol and toilet rolls dominated the
media headlines. Both
traditional and online media were covering this deadly virus from wherever they
could, and all sorts of remedies and video clips went viral through social
media. Consequently, government stepped in to criminalise the spreading of
disinformation on Covid-19. They also engaged the media, telcos and non-profit
organisations to address this. The
National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) surveyed 20 of its commercial radio
members on radio’s response to Covid-19. The survey focused on the first six
weeks of the national lockdown and tracked listenership, content and community
support to develop a report titled Rising to the Contagion. What
is evident is that both radio listenership and time spent listening (TSL)
increased. Additional research also showed
that at this time of great uncertainty and social distancing, radio provided
companionship and made people feel less alone. Importantly, radio is
regarded as a trusted and credible source of news and information. The
data also pointed to an increase in radio streaming numbers and online
engagement. The managing director of YFM, Haseena Cassim, concurs, as they
experienced a 40% increase in streaming with a 70% increase in engagement on
social media. For Cassim, in this time of crisis, radio has proven to be agile,
authentic and adaptable. Streaming went up 41% for Gauteng-based 702, while
Algoa FM in the Eastern Cape went up 46% and Smile FM in the Western Cape went
up 53%. Boni
Mchunu, managing director of East Coast Radio, is optimistic about these
trends, saying, “Our daytime shows indicated double-digit listenership and TSL
was up 32% due to the fact that people were at home and having more time to listen
to radio. What was pleasing is that they listened to radio more because radio
is regarded as trustworthy and a credible source of information.” She
adds that first-party data indicates that 89% of East Coast Radio listeners
listen to both traditional and streaming platforms. “This is why our content
strategy lives on air, online and through video. Traditional media can
influence digital activities positively and we have seen that in most
campaigns. Therefore, platform integration is important in order to reach
suitable markets at all times.” As a regulated industry and essential service under the Covid-19 framework, broadcasters are required to provide public service announcements (PSAs) on the coronavirus. The industry didn’t wait to be prompted by any regulatory requirements, responding quickly to the global health emergency and partnering with NGOs and government to increase awareness of the disease. Many
rolled up their sleeves and organised food parcels and PPEs, working closely
with their local communities. Free airtime was also provided to small
businesses and NGOs – and campaigns on gender-based violence. PSAs were
developed in consultation with the Department of Health and the World Health
Organization. During
those early weeks of the national lockdown, between the 20 stations surveyed a
total of 72 790 radio PSAs went out across nine provinces, covering seven
languages and reaching an average of 12.2 million listeners each week. In
addition to regular and consistent PSAs being aired, programmers also adapted
their schedules to accommodate community and government projects, and those
vital presidential announcements and updates by the National Command Council.
With the entire country having to stay at home and roads emptying out, many
questioned the future of drive-time programming. Tracy
Stafford, an audience and currency research expert with AME, reminds us that
drive time is part of our daily routine. Although in-field audience research
had to be suspended due to lockdown, it is evident that drive time is not
necessarily synonymous with ‘in vehicle’ listening and even under normal
circumstances ‘place of listening’ is still predominantly in the home. Stafford
believes that drive time will continue to hold audiences regardless of whether
or not we work from home. She adds, “Irrespective of where you work you still
get up in the morning, prepare breakfast, get dressed, get the kids to school.
Not only does the content provided by radio stations during drive time form
part of your daily routine, but it also provides vital information and updates
on what’s happening in your community, the country and the world. It allows you
to start and end your day being more informed and prepared. Under the current
circumstances it’s possibly more important than ever.” Judy
Monyela represents the SABC on the NAB commercial radio committee. “Drive time
will continue as a core part of our line-up in providing compelling and relevant
content on our platforms, both traditional and streaming,” she says. Monyela
adds that Covid-19 content has been prioritised on SABC platforms. She
acknowledges that while audiences may now be Covid-19 fatigued, the public
mandate requires such content to be emphasised on all channels. She
concludes, “It remains important for the SABC radio services to continue
offering relevant and credible content, otherwise audiences will be subjected
to social media content, which is rarely verified.” As we entered level one of the lockdown, the ‘new normal’ begins to feel very much like the ‘old normal’ on South Africa’s roads. Drive time seems to have resumed comfortably, with traffic updates, sports reporting and much-loved “personality” breakfast hosts continuing to keep audiences entertained and informed. It is apparent that, with or without lockdowns, drive time is set to be in gear for years to come! Nadia Bulbulia is the executive director of the National Association of Broadcasters. She’s held executive roles in telecoms, corporate social investment and the creative industry. She was a councillor at the IBA and ICASA during the formative years of broadcasting and telecoms reform and regulation. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.