The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Google Play launches Play Points rewards programme in
South Africa Google has launched Google
Play Points, a rewards programme for Google Play users that enables
them to earn points for the ways they already use Google Play. Google Play
Points has four levels, from Bronze to Platinum. Launched this week in
South Africa and 12 other countries – Denmark, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy,
Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UAE –
the programme lets users earn points and redeem them for in-app items or Google
Play Credit. “More than two billion
people in 190 countries use Google Play to discover blockbuster movies, apps
that help you be more productive, and books that inspire imagination. To show
our appreciation, Google created a rewards programme called Google Play Points
that lets you earn points and rewards for the ways you already use Google
Play,” said Mariam Abdulahi, director, Africa Platform Partnerships – Android
and Play. “Over the past two years, millions of people have joined the
programme in countries where it’s available. From this week, South Africans
will be able to sign up too.” People moves DeltaVictorBravo appoints
Dhatchani Christian as Managing Director The team at
DeltaVictorBravo has welcomed Dhatchani Christian to the team. Christian has
more than 20 years of strategy, marketing and consumer research experience and
is an accomplished problem-solver who has worked with a wide spectrum of
leading global, multi-national and local brands. Christian recently
returned from a four-year stint in the UK where she led brand, innovation and
research projects for market-leading clients based in the UK, US and Europe
with Mondelez International, Dole Foods and Filippo Berio counting among
these. Prior to that, she worked with DeltaVictorBravo founder, David
Blyth, at Yellowwood, as a strategy director. She has also held senior
positions in consumer research at TNS as well as in brand management at Colgate
Palmolive, and within sales and marketing at Standard Bank and FNB. Her qualifications
include a Bachelor of Business Science with Honours in Marketing from the
University of Cape Town, and a Masters in Business Administration with
distinction from the Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS) in
Johannesburg. Piet Rampedi is the new editor
for Pretoria News Independent Media has
appointed investigative journalist Piet Rampedi as the new editor of Pretoria
News.  The appointment is effective as of 1 February 2021. Rampedi has 20 years of
mainstream media experience in both print and broadcasting and has worked for
titles and media organisations such as Sunday Independent, The Star, City Press,
Sunday Times and the SABC. He takes over from respected media stalwart Val
Bojé, who is stepping down to take up new responsibilities within the greater
Sekunjalo group. In line with the Group’s
career development strategy, Rampedi was promoted to assistant editor at Sunday
Independent prior to his new appointment. He previously headed up Independent
Media group’s investigations unit in 2019, edited African Times newspaper from 2016
to 2019, and had a stint as the group’s political editor from 2013 to
2014. Rampedi said he was
looking forward to continuing Pretoria News’ tradition of groundbreaking
journalism, and to further entrenching its reputation as a source of credible
and reliable information, that is beyond reproach. Business
moves COBRA and SMEgo: The perfect partnership COBRA and SMEgo both
assist small and medium businesses, helping them secure business funding to
sustain operations and help them grow. By joining forces, the two entities will
now be able to connect even more business owners to a wider range of funding
opportunities. COBRA (Covid-19 Business
Rescue Assistance) was established in March 2020 as a direct response to the
immediate and immense need to support distressed businesses that were impacted
by the economic lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The objective of the
organisation is to give businesses in distress the tools they need to make it
through difficult times. This assistance comes in the form of legal advice,
funding, staff, technology, and expertise in all business areas whenever
necessary. SMEgo provides a single
platform and application system that makes it easier for businesses to apply
for funding from multiple partners. This reduces the time businesses need to
spend researching and applying for funding on each site. “Finding a partner that
shares our values and ideals has made such a difference to the COBRA
initiative,” said Adam Craker, CEO of IQbusiness. “Not only has this simplified
the funding process for distressed businesses, but it also gives us access to a
wider range of tools to ensure that businesses get the help they need to keep
going.” By leveraging SMEgo’s
network, COBRA will be able to refer businesses to the site and allow them to
apply for funding – and follow the entire process – all from one convenient
platform. The approach provides options that would’ve otherwise been impossible
for small businesses to access. Discovery Bank launches a new campaign
to show why it’s a Bank like no other A
new multi-media campaign by Discovery Bank brings home a unique concept in
banking and the basis of Discovery Bank – that it is no ordinary bank, it is a
shared-value bank. Firoze
Bhorat, Chief Marketing Officer at Discovery, said, “Yes, while some services,
such as banking, have been around for centuries and inherently still work, the
models are outdated and ripe for disruption. This is our philosophy with all
Discovery businesses… This new campaign, with numerous connection points to
audiences, aims to take shared-value banking to consumers in a visually
enticing way while it highlights every aspect of how Discovery Bank shares
continual value with clients in meaningful ways.” This
latest campaign was created with MetropolitanRepublic. FCB launches campaign for Toyota’s latest offering Toyota South Africa has
launched the all-new Toyota Agya to capture a bigger share of the country’s
small car market. Because the Toyota Agya has
a lot more to offer than people expect of an entry level car, the FCB Joburg
team of executive creative director Tian van den Heever, creative director
Julie Thorogood, art director Leesha Harington and copywriter Matthew Shafto
opted to position it as ‘a big deal for a small car’. New fire for the Ener-G-Africa
brand Marketing consultancy
Firejuice and sustainable energy start-up, Ener-G-Africa have joined forces to
implement a marketing strategy that will expand Ener-G-Africa’s footprint
throughout Southern Africa. Based in Malawi,
Ener-G-Africa is fast becoming known as one of the country’s leading
sustainable energy companies, based on its development and manufacture of
innovative solutions tailored to Africa. These extend from rural
cookstoves to a world-class solar panel factory – only the second
in Sub-Saharan Africa. Firejuice, in turn, is a
team of marketing consultants that provides marketing strategy, planning and
project management services to small and medium-sized companies. This particular collaboration
is a six-month engagement, during which Firejuice will act as an outsourced
marketing department and support Ener-G-Africa as it expands. Richard Bunderson, a Director
of Ener-G-Africa, points to the solar panel factory as a major reason for
engaging with Firejuice, which will “help Ener-G-Africa to take a
strategic approach to generating demand once the plant is operational.” Making moves TNT Africa muscles up with exciting
channel refresh for 2021 As
of 1 February, TNT Africa will be revealing its 2021 channel refresh packed
with an exciting slate of tailor-made shows and content that will keep African
audiences glued to their screens. With this move, the channel aims to emphasise
its commitment to delivering relevant and exciting programming to African fans. As
part of the refresh, TNT Africa will debut AEW DYNAMITE, the weekly flagship
show from All Elite Wresting, the new professional wrestling league that is
taking the world by storm. The launch kicks off on Friday, 5 February, at 13h20
(CAT) with the first five episodes of the new season. Then, every Friday night,
during prime time at 20h00 (CAT), the channel will premiere the recent
high-octane matches, two days after the US premiere, and after that repeated
twice throughout the week.  AEW offers an alternative to mainstream
wrestling with a roster of world-class talent offering TNT Africa viewers a
spectacular weekly wrestling programme jam-packed with action and the
unexpected. “TNT
is excited to usher in a new era in entertainment that is attuned to our
audience needs and appetite. Despite how far we’ve come, we remain steadfastly
dedicated to giving our African audience premium content, and the launch of AEW
DYNAMITE and the channel refresh bear testament of this,” said Guillermo Farré,
head of the WarnerMedia General Entertainment. Planet Classroom Network
Channel on YouTube will showcase videos by youth from digitally hard to reach
places. The Pandemic raised
awareness for the fact that at least 463 million students around the world have
no access to technology. However, that isn’t stopping XtalksWorldListens co-founder
Alex Bell, who believes every young person has an interesting story to tell the
rest of the world no matter where they live. His organization gives the
opportunity to young people in digitally hard to reach places to raise their
voices and share their ideas and perspectives for a changing world. This turned
out to be a perfect fit for the Planet Classroom Network’s YouTube Channel, the
first-ever global multicultural channel for youth launched earlier this year. This month, the Planet Classroom Network YouTube Channel
features video presentations from youth in Malawi talking about their lives,
their challenges and their dreams for the future. “Every young person, no
matter where they live, has an interesting story to tell,” noted Bell. “We aim
to find the next Greta, the next Malala and the next Parkland kids.” DStv Access customers
will now have access to Novela Magic. As part of M-Net and
MultiChoice’s ongoing commitment to broaden the accessibility and entertainment
value of its content offerings, Novela Magic on DStv channel 165 was made
available to DStv Access customers from Friday, 22 January 2021 at 18:00. That
means, together with DStv Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, and Family customers,
DStv Access viewers can now experience the best of Africa. Launched last year in November, Novel Magic celebrates Africa’s love for storytelling as well as the local creative talent by showcasing a variety of unique local stories with themes that resonate and engage with the viewers. The channel is MultiChoice and M-Net’s first-ever African only telenovela channel. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.