Wrapping up 2020 with a big, gold bow, Publicis Media and Platform GSK took home first position with Sensodyne, and Zenith landed seventh position with Samsung’s Galazy Z Fold2 in this year’s YouTube year-end wrap-up leader-board. The YouTube year-end wrap-up leader-board for 2020 showcased the top 10 ads that people in South Africa chose to watch on YouTube this year, demonstrating what is possible with the power of media and the strength of creative. “Our client’s success comes first and is achievement is testament to the great digital work our teams are delivering, with a collaborative spirit and determined passion to lead the digital media landscape in South Africa,” said Kate Carlisle-Kitz, VP Publicis Media South Africa. ViacomCBS Networks Africa(VCNA) took home top honours at the prestigious Promax Awards Global Excellence 2020. The Promax Awards are the world’s top prize for outstanding achievement in entertainment marketing and design and celebrate the brand-defining campaigns that convert viewers into fans, build audiences on every screen, and drive bottom-line results for the biggest media companies in the world. The 2020 edition of the awards saw organisations like CNN Worldwide, NBCUniversal Networks, The Walt Disney Company and Aljazeera walk away with prestigious prizes. ViacomCBS Networks Africa(VCNA) scooped the coveted Gold award in the ‘Something for Nothing’ category for their MTV Base: Blaze the Trail campaign. In addition to that, the network clinched a Silver award in the Syndicated Promo category for Comedy Central’s Friends of Tom Selleck Stunt. They rounded up their momentous wins with three Bronze awards for Comedy Central’s Friends of Tom Selleck Stunt in the Funniest Promo andClip Based Comedy Promo categories and for ViacomCBS Networks Africa’s Women’s Day Inventions in the Copy Writing category. Monde Twala, senior vice president and general manager of Viacom CBS Networks Africa said 2020’s incredible Promax wins were “a testament to the innovative and creative formats we have been driving at ViacomCBS Networks Africa… This phenomenal achievement would have not possible without the support of our partners, clients and talented teams. Even in a year as challenging as 2020, we have a great story to tell and I am proud of the numerous accolades we have been awarded over the course of the year.” In November 2020, ViacomCBS Networks Africa won a record 29 awards at the PromaxBDA Africa 2020. MTV Shuga Down South 2 won the Best Youth Programme at the 14th South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAs). At the 2020 Africa Brand Summit Awards, VCNA Corporate Brand won the coveted Country/Continent Influencer Brand Award that reflects organisations who are evolving image/reputational status of Africa and a select key regional economic drivers. Again abroad, VCNA clinched global recognition at the IABC Gold Quill (Merit Award) and the Africa Silver Quill Awards (Award of Excellence) in the Media Relations category for BET Africa’s first-ever black excellence inspired biopic, Dream: The Lebo Mathosa Story. 2020 South African Loyalty Awards highlighted the increasing value of targeted information in the retail space The 2020 South African Loyalty Awards highlighted the increasing value of targeted information in the retail space for all stakeholders – consumers, retailers and brands – with competition criteria measuring how loyalty excellence can drive commercial results and better customer experiences. South Africa is proving to be ahead of the global loyalty game, according to Matt Oldham, one of the judges and MD and co-founder at UK’s Partner Union, who refers to the South African market as “THE standout place for loyalty innovation and excellence” in the Loyalty Awards Winners Report. Effective loyalty programmes deliver what all stakeholders in the retail market need – relevant information. Some offer a far higher degree of detail than others, some are niched, rewards differ, but in general they connect shoppers with shops and brands. Oldham adds, “Where old school coalitions are faltering in other markets, true partnerships with programme inter-operability continue to expand and thrive in South Africa. Leading edge tech is liberally sprinkled across the South African loyalty landscape.” He says one of the strengths of our sector is “its ability to adapt and create relevance in such a diverse socio-demographic spectrum.” Encouraging and complimentary words they may be, but the learning curve for programmes that have navigated the wild waters of South African selling, marketing and shopping choices has been – and will continue to be – steep, particularly within the main market, both for those trying to sell to it and for the consumers themselves. Determining the scope that needs to be included to source the right information for the right market and/or consumer at the right time, takes time. A fundamental learning for 2Engage over eight years of returning again and again to the drawing board, is that loyalty and customer engagement does work in the main market. This market has largely been ignored, primarily because of its complexity and inaccessibility, but consistent and in-depth efforts to connect with the market, to offer value, information, and loyalty rewards is achieving excellent results. 2Engage’s bonsella rewards programme, for instance, has 1.65 million main market customers, and is growing at a rate of 70 000 per month. It is linked to over 160 independent retail stores around the country, and 10 taverns in Gauteng, and is designed to connect brands, stores and consumers with information that delivers a win-win-win result for all stakeholders. 2Engage developed a unique platform that can integrate with different in-store point-of-sale systems in stores and provide value for everyone: With the extensive instore agent network, bonsella is able to run research campaigns in the independent sector to gain insight into main market shopping plans. These face-to-face surveys were conducted by instore bonsella agents with 557 over-18-year-old shoppers early in December, across eight provinces. Their primary reasons for shopping at that specific store were price (48%), product variety (17%), to receive bonsella airtime rewards (16.3%) and convenience (14%). More than 90% responded yes to the question, “Does information such as flyers, posters or SMSes about specials or competitions help you decide where you will shop?” The different communication channels rated 37% for SMSes, 23% for flyers, 17% for posters, 16% for newspaper advertising, and 5% for radio. Almost 74% of the shoppers said they shopped Black Friday deals this year, over 57% said they would have done their Christmas shopping by mid-December, 64% said they would shop where they normally shop, and 78% said yes, they would be buying special, non-essential items for Christmas – with luxury groceries and clothes coming in at 64%. How often did they use their bonsella card? 62% said every time they shop and 27% said occasionally – and the main reasons were free airtime (65%) and competitions and prizes (26%). ~ Andrew Weinberg, CEO of 2Engage and bonsella The Drum Awards: Digital Advertising The entry deadline for The Drum Awards – Digital Advertising, a global competition recognising the very best technology and digital media in advertising, is tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 January. If you haven’t submitted your entry just yet, there’s still time to identify the categories you’d like to enter and gather everything you need to catch the attention of this year’s expert judging panel. See the full panel here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.