The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: ESPN Africa announces brand collaboration with Bob O’Connor In the spirit of
its promise to bring the best of American sports to the continent, ESPN Africa
has announced a collaboration with comedy character Bob O’Connor. As part of
the local brand campaign, O’Connor,
the alter ego of actor Tyson Ngubeni, will lend his talents as a special
correspondent with delusions of a would-be career as a professional athlete if
it were not for an injury caused by stubbing his toe at his high school
graduation. He has been stationed in South Africa since 2018. Catch the
first video here Through his witty
humour and sporting knowledge, O’Connor will share insights that will help
South African’s foster understanding of American sports both on television and
social media. With his unique comedic approach, he draws parallels between the
iconic leagues featured on both ESPN
and ESPN 2, and our country’s own sporting leagues, all in an effort to help
explain some of the facets of American sports that have intrigued audiences for
years. He also does occasional pieces of social commentary on South African
cultural nuances to hilarious effect. Viewers can catch
the on-air campaign across both ESPN and ESPN 2, as well as National
Geographic, National Geographic Wild and Fox. They can also connect to
@ESPNAfrica across Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, as well as Africa.espn.com
to keep up to date with the latest from the hilarious O’Connor, the world of
American Sports and beyond. “This local brand collaboration with Bob O’Connor will walk side
by side with fans as we kick off an action-packed year for sport on the ESPN
channels in 2021. His self-deprecating humour and signature comedy style are a
treat to watch, while also being invaluable in explaining American sporting
leagues to viewers and fans across the continent.” said Evert van der Veer, Vice President,
Media Networks, The Walt Disney Company Africa. People moves Ogilvy names James Kinney
as global chief diversity, equity & inclusion officer Ogilvy has announced that
James Nicholas Kinney has been appointed global chief diversity, equity &
inclusion officer and chief people officer for North America. “My
life’s work is centered around propelling people towards their purpose and
unlocking doors so they can achieve their full potential. It’s an honor to have
a global platform to do just that at Ogilvy. I’m looking forward to partnering
with Andy, Devika, Jag, and our people to further ignite allyship at Ogilvy and
to inject more creativity into the way people work,” Kinney said. He will partner with
leaders across the company’s global network to develop and evolve practices,
policies, and programs to ensure Ogilvy has a strong culture of belonging — one
that fosters an open environment for everyone to thrive and be their authentic
selves. Kinney succeeds Donna Pedro who joined Ogilvy in 2007 as one of the
advertising industry’s first Chief Diversity Officers; Pedro recently moved
into a role with WPP. Commenting on the appointment, Andy Main, Global CEO of Ogilvy, said: “James brings with him a passion for
people that is contagious and a unique approach to diversity, equity,
inclusion, and culture. Our success and sustainability as a business will be
the direct result of our people as well as our ability to build a culture where
the many dimensions of difference are represented and valued at all levels of
the company. I’m thrilled to have James bringing his rich expertise to our
leadership team.” Business moves Lactalis SA awards full-service account to HelloFCB+ Following a strategic and
creative pitch, Lactalis SA has awarded its integrated marketing communications
on its Parmalat, Melrose and President Cheese brands, excluding media planning
and buying, to HelloFCB+. According to the dairy
brand’s marketing executive, Karolina Laubscher, the Mother City agency was
selected, not only because it addressed the brief very well, but because of its
ability to respond to feedback demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness. “HelloFCB+ showcased a
strong strategic skillset and interesting creative approach. Their ideas across
the board were both creative and unique, with rational and emotional benefits
well executed to provide excellent product presence throughout. We are looking
forward to opening a new chapter together,” she said. HelloFCB+ managing director, Danielle Sneiders, added: “In these uncertain times, people are returning to one constant now more than ever – our need for human connection. At HelloFCB+ The Human Connections agency, we know that brands that lead with purpose and put humans at the heart of each consideration set will be rewarded.” Exciting changes
to Biznews.com’s service in 2021 BizNews founder Alec Hogg is once again introducing the revamped Daily Insider newsletter. “The changes we have made to our popular morning missive have been well received. Trust this one will also be. “This frees Jackie Cameron to focus on her considerable interviewing skills, joining our team and Bloomberg’s in delivering the best business podcasts you’ll find in South Africa. And they’re free. So don’t miss out,” said Hogg. The popular Biznews Digest PDF returns on Saturday, replacing the Weekender. Nadya Swart is attracting quite a following with her superb short-form videos for Biznews TV. Check them on this link. The Biznews Premium service now includes Hogg’s daily Rational Perspective newsletter which also features a WSJ article most relevant for its community; the interactive monthly share portfolio update; and, of course, full membership of The Wall Street Journal. Hogg added, “As
exciting is the imminent launch of Biznews
Shares, a new service on JSE-listed companies. We’re in the final stages
of a project that’s very close to my heart – there are many unappreciated
diamonds on SA’s stock market. We’ll be providing you everything you need to
uncover them. Including CEO interviews and specialist reporting by our
soon-to-be-CFA Justin Rowe-Roberts.” Offlimit Communications
bolsters digital and PR service divisions Through-the-line agency,
Offlimit Communications (OLC) has announced that they have bolstered their
in-house digital and public relations divisions. The digital and social media
division will now offer an array of services that include but not limited to
strategy, content management, social media, SEO and SEM strategies, PPC, web,
multimedia, and CMS. The agency welcomed
highly skilled Jared Kisten who will head up the digital division, and seasoned
PR guru, Tia Mthethwa who will lead the OLC PR team The PR division will see
the agency widening their capabilities to expand their service offering to now
include internal corporate communication, reputation management, crisis
management, and stakeholder management, adding to their existing PR,
influencer, and talent management services. This is a major move for the agency
that began its grassroots purely as an experiential agency and has seen
year-on-year growth in the past 16 years, evolving into a fully-fledged
multi-disciplinary services suite, through-the-line agency. Offlimit Communications
recently won work across notable clients such as Pernod Ricard SCA, British
American Tobacco DRC, Blue Ribbon Africa, BMW, Castle Lite extra curricula and
murals, Western Cape Vodacom Summer TTL marketing, Huawei Black Friday and HMC,
Lil-Lets Africa, Ligugu Maize Mail Africa, Iwisa Maize, SMARTSTART, Snowflake,
Manhattan Sweets Africa, Nestle, McCain Sure Crisps, McCain Safety, The Beast
Foundation Boot Camp: Tendai Mtawarira and Discovery Health. Chat-based
business-recovery resource launched on WhatsApp to assist SMMEs during Covid-19 A chat-based service called
SMMEstart has been launched on WhatsApp to provide SMMEs in South Africa with
instantly actionable information, guidance and resources to help business
owners restart and grow their businesses during the COVID-19 economic recovery
period and beyond. The SMMEstart service on WhatsApp was developed by Praekelt.org in partnership with Arifu and Jozihub with funding support from Google.org. Designed around an easy-to-navigate menu, SMMEstart is a service that is activated by simply texting the word ‘hi’ in a WhatsApp message to +27 60 011 0110 to get started. The resources included have
been developed based on the results of research that was conducted into the
needs of micro, small and medium-sized business in South Africa – especially
needs brought on by Covid-19. Among other insights, the
needs assessment research confirmed that most businesses in the study
experienced severe financial impact from Covid-19. Most respondents indicated
that Covid-19 illuminated a need for business skills, predominantly skills
relating to implementing sustainable, online business opportunities and digital
marketing. Netherlands national trade association Outreach joins World Out of Home Organisation WOO
has signed a new national association member, Outreach in the Netherlands.
Outreach is chaired by Eric Kip who is also managing director of Exterion Media in the country. Outreach members include Albert Heijn, Centercom, Clear Channel, Exterion Media, Hillenaar Outdoor, JC Decaux, Ocean Outdoor and OV Media. WOO has recruited a number of new national association members in the last 12 months including the OMA in Australia, OAAN in Nigeria, OHMSA in South Africa and Central de Outdoor in Brazil. WOO COO
Mark Flys said: “Recruiting an important new national association member is a
great way for WOO to begin 2021. We look forward to working with Eric and his
colleague members to make Out of Home an even more desirable and essential choice
for advertisers in the Netherlands.” Making moves IAS
continues to grow its popular Agency Masterclass Programme After
more than 10 years of running a unique Agency Masteclass programme, the IAS
continues to see growth with up to 70 attendees per class, particularly over
the past year when the programme went virual. This easy-to-access solution over
Covid attracted attendees from all over the country and as far afield as
Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana. “The Masterclass Programme will offer a balance of
local expertise to cater for our unique South African environment, and
international insights which are more important than ever before due to the
expenentially increasing pace at which international trends move around the
world,” said Johanna McDowell, founder
and CEO of the IAS. The 2021 the Agency Masterclass Programme will offer
10 masterclasses over the year, an increase from previous years, with a focus
on international speakers including: The first Marketing Panel Masterclass is on the 17 February and will unpack An Unprecedented Time – What marketers are looking for?.  The Marketing Panel will include some of the marketing industry top minds.  For further details on the full range of topics to be covered during 2021 please click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.