With an increased range of disciplines for marketers to take into account, knowing which research firms have the experience you need is vital for getting it right the first time. In the age of adaptive
marketing that enables marketers to personalise not only their messaging but
also the precise products and services to be delivered to potential customers,
how do you decide what kind of research you need to do before determining the
nature of a best-fit campaign? It all comes down to
what you need to know and what your business goals are. Obviously, engaging a
research specialist is key – but which one has the experience specific to your
client’s needs? The IAS was recently
contracted to work with a large organisation with a variety of research needs.
An audit of all the research companies in South Africa, benchmarked against
their international counterparts, was required to ensure the client was able to
select from the top researchers, and invest in data that would pay dividends. To ensure the client
was delivered all the information required to choose the most effective
research firm timeously and within budget, IAS research had to examine each
contender’s overall experience, then that which was most important to our
client. This included the role of research for more advanced marketing purposes; how the research would be of value immediately and within the next few years; what the researchers would supply in terms of data that could be documented to show previous and potential trends; and an indication of pricing structures for deliverables. Having dug deep into
the research industry in South Africa, along with insights into the
international market, the IAS is now well positioned to offer recommendations
on all aspects of research, and introduce the right companies for marketers
needing the most valuable research per project. In an economy that
requires every cent to be spent wisely, marketers understand the importance of
research – and the IAS understands the importance of getting the right
partnership from the start. As we move forward in a
market that demands a new way of seeing things, we believe research will be a strong
driver of overall marketing performance across campaigns of all types and
sizes. The key to getting the most out of your research lies in the investment
you make, not just financially but skilfully. Trends for the new year may be difficult to predict from the platform on which we stand right now, but time and money spent on proper, in-depth research has never yet cost a marketer what no research has. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.