As preparations get underway for the 4th AGENCY SCOPE study to begin in May 2021, Johanna McDowell, SCOPEN partner and director for the UK and South Africa, notes that some of the trends seen in the global research will be a barometer for the pressures, proficiencies and pandemic recovery in South Africa. Off the back of our
plunge into rapid, monumental change, marketers will be tasked with facing a
number of complex issues in 2021 and beyond. 
SCOPEN co-founder
and global CEO, César Vacchiano’s research in overseas markets shows that the
amounts of work during Covid-19 lockdowns grew, at fees that remained static. The pace at which strategic
changes had to be made and implemented through Covid spilled over to agencies and
work picked up as marketer’s demand grew giving rise to a remarkable trend:
Where agencies used to pitch two or three ideas to marketers, the time
constraints forced them to pick one to present. César believes this
will become the norm and agencies will back their best work, forcing marketers
to choose from fewer – but more considered – ideas. Then, there’s the
growing complexity of the communications world, which has led to new models of in-housing
of agencies. However, talent available to bring to in-house operations is not
always ideal. They are often quickly bored due to the lack of brand and task
diversity, and isolated from the typical agency creative hot house, making them
difficult to retain. Carrying the costs of in-house
creative salaries on a permanent basis is quite a cost burden, and marketers would
do better to hire an agency or work alongside a hybrid model, where teams ideally
work between the client and the agency. The industry’s next
move, however – creatives merging with media agencies – is a trend to note. An
amalgamation of this nature will bring together a full-service, one-stop shop
able to provide more transformational solutions for marketing and technology
clients. With digital in the mix, the move is one that provides brands with the
adaptive marketing many are seeking. Thus, AGENCY SCOPE
2021/2022 will be trying to facilitate a deeper conversation around marketers’ digital
partners such as Google, Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram. As social media
platforms foster more intimate relationships with people, they meet the needs
of marketers looking for those once-elusive interpersonal relationships. So, are all online
platforms ultimately the responsibility of the marketer or the digital agency?
What about PR? Surely blogs, vlogs and Facebook community monitoring is public
relations? The agency that goes as
“digital” must certainly take ownership of the strategy that combines all
online advertising, but why would they incur the expense of, say, writers, when
those fall under PR. Who does the social media team on the front line of
engaging communities and taking responsibility for brand reputation work with
or report to? To deliver an
effective, multi-channel customer experience, there must be deeper
understanding as to who owns each relationship and how they dovetail in their
respective understanding of their part in a campaign, and the analytics gleaned
from it. I believe that
collaboration between several teams is possible and even profitable, providing
there’s a single point of management – and the marketer is a front-runner for
that position. Another trend we saw as
Covid began to take hold was the rapid flourishing of start up agencies. With
job losses across the board, many talented individuals brought their services
together and have created something of a cultural phenomenon in the industry
which is, by all accounts, keeping bigger agencies on their toes. Jason Hall, digital
marketer with US publication FiveChannels,
says that even in a pitch, a small agency has a distinct advantage: “Your team
won’t be distracted by the demands of Coca-Cola next week, or Goldman Sachs the
week after. You’ll be focusing on the client you’re pitching to, with very
little in the way to knock you off the tracks.” We are keen to see how
these start-ups continue to challenge the status quo and push boundaries as
they impact relationships with agencies – and the number of agencies – that clients
are working with. Marketers may well enjoy the undivided attention and element
of dedication a small, hungry agency offers. With a number of service
permutations for marketers to choose from, César notes that AGENCY SCOPE data
enables agencies to position themselves and their offerings for high
visibility. As the preeminent tool
to highlight an agency’s mettle and assist marketers in identifying a good fit,
AGENCY SCOPE 2021 will continue to give subscribers a global view of what
clients look for and a local view of the market. Noted by Luca Gallarelli of TBWA\South Africa for its “outstanding depth of analysis”, we look forward to exceptional data from a particularly interesting industry right now. Johanna McDowell is the founder and CEO of Independent Agency Selection and managing partner of SCOPEN Africa. McDowell has built her career in marketing and advertising since 1974, starting out in marketing in the UK then holding directorships in both South Africa and British advertising agencies until she was appointed managing director of Grey Phillips Advertising in 1988. She founded the IAS in 2007. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.