The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: The Forge by
Machine_ unlocks a world of opportunities for young creative talent Machine_
has launched The Forge, an initiative that will find, nurture and empower young
creative talent and equip them with all the tools necessary for a career in
advertising and communications, including a full bursary to a top creative
school. The Forge will also
continue driving important conversations and initiatives in the industry
throughout 2021. For PJ Eales, Machine’s executive creative director
and Forge co-founder, this is essential for addressing youth unemployment,
representation and related issues in the industry. “Machine_ recognises that
when it comes to diversity and representation our agency, and the industry at
large, needs to do more,” said Eales. “It’s our collective responsibility to
ensure that we have the right voices in the room, and that those voices are
being heard. That’s why The Forge aims to find and nurture those voices from
early on.” During the initial phase
of The Forge, in partnership with the Red & Yellow Creative School of Business,
the candidate will receive a full bursary sponsored by Machine_ to study an
Advanced Diploma in Copywriting in 2021. Machine_ will then work closely with
the selected student during the course of the year, with a guaranteed paid
internship in 2022 once they’ve graduated. Do you have the right
brain for copywriting, or know someone who does? All interested candidates can
apply for The Forge bursary to study the Advanced Diploma in Copywriting in
2021 by simply emailing their details to fulltime@redandyellow.co.za People
moves Primedia Broadcasting
appoints Muhammad Cajee as Chief Digital Officer Primedia Broadcasting has
appointed Muhammad Cajee, a seasoned strategist with experience
operationalising a range of digital initiatives for broadcast organisations
globally, as chief digital officer, effective 1 March 2021. Primedia Broadcasting Interim CEO, Geraint Crwys-Williams said, “Muhammad’s appointment represents an important investment in our new direction as a broadcaster, with a strong focus on seeking out and amplifying multi-platform, digital opportunities for ourselves and our clients. We believe that the optimisation and expansion of our digital value propositions, and the development of new channels for growth on mobile and online, will deliver an era of enhanced engagement.” Cajee brings with him vast
local and international experience leading, or co-leading, many strategic
projects during his career including the Al Jazeera Renewal Project in Doha,
Qatar and the AJ+ Project, in San Francisco, USA. He has served as the Interim
Bureau Chief, as well as the Head of Operations of Al Jazeera International USA
Inc. in Washington DC. “As
the CDO, I will endeavour to work closely with all my colleagues across
Primedia Broadcasting, to build a shared vision for us to leverage the next
wave of digital innovation and audience growth in the industry,” Cajee said. “My
goal will be to provide the support, information, insights, as well as new and
refreshed platforms, to create value through innovative digital tools,
technologies, services, and processes”. Andrew Shaw joins Hoorah
Digital to head up Nestle in-house agency It’s tempting to call Andrew Shaw a jack of all trades, with his dynamic and varied professional background which spans everything from interaction design, animation direction, strategic consulting and more. But ‘master of none’ he is certainly not. Shaw is the latest talent
to join the impressive cast of industry heavyweights Hoorah Digital have
managed to attract in their two-and-half-year existence. While his official
title is creative director as he heads up the Nestle in-house agency, Shaw in
fact wears a far more versatile hat as he gets involved in every aspect of the
day-to-day running of the agency. “This approach really
appeals to me and I wanted to be a part of the action, so I got in touch with
them,” Shaw said. He said the in-house model allows for far stronger working
relationships with the brand partner, ultimately setting the stage for more
relevant and more engaging work, the latter being tantamount to achieving brand
marketing success in 2021. King Committee appoints
new chairman Following the resignation
of Suresh Kana as chair of the King committee on corporate governance,
effective from 31 January 2021, the King Committee embarked on a process for
the nomination and election of a new Chair to lead the Committee and its
important work. Ansie Ramalho assumed the position of chairman of the King Committee effective from 16 February 2021. Ramalho is a professional
non-executive director, with the Chartered Director SA designation. She is
considered a leading authority on corporate governance and directorship, having
served as a member of the King Committee for more than 12 years, two of which
she served as King IV project lead.  She has also served on numerous other
technical committees, including the Integrated Reporting Committee and the
CRISA Committee. Her prior positions include being the Chief Executive of the
IoDSA from 2010 to 2014. According to Mervyn King,
Chair Emeritus of the King Committee, “With her years of experience as a
corporate lawyer, and a member of the King Committee, Ansie was a natural
choice to Chair the Committee.” Business moves Mediamark
launches Guaranteed Target Segment Solutions Trend
indicators for 2021 show that that the insatiable appetite for all things data
is on the rise. Through
extensive conversation in market, Mediamark has found that advertisers and
media professionals alike are on the lookout for data driven, time and
cost-efficient ways to achieve audience uplift and deliver audience KPI’s. In
response, Mediamark has launched its Guaranteed Target Segments (GTS) solutions
to advertisers. These will deliver guaranteed audiences against sought after,
pre-defined segments. These segments represent the economically active middle
and high socio-economic markets. Itumeleng
Lethoko, Mediamark head of analytics and insights, said: “The Mediamark
stations’ deliver highly competitive reach among its competitor set across the
various segments within different regions. This delivery includes low
duplication with minimal wastage”. The
GTS Solutions offer advertisers quality brand exposure as spots are placed in
premium environments and quarter hour time slots, for the best audience
delivery and cost-effective campaigns. Mediamark
have partnered with third party providers which will guarantee solutions,
provide advertisers with efficient spot buying, campaign monitoring and post
campaign analysis. Real time campaign tracking provides assurance against
under-delivery and spots not being flighted. Cindy
Diamond, Group Sales Director of Mediamark said after the recent launch of the
Data Survey Products, which allows advertisers to tap into rich first party,
Mediamark wanted to continue the innovation by finding a way to give
advertisers cost effective campaign options that include guaranteed performance
ratings. Conversation
LAB wins global marine insurance account out of London Independent
creative agency Conversation LAB has increased its penetration into the UK
market with the new account win of UK P&I, one of the largest marine
insurers in the world. Conversation LAB has been appointed by UK
P&I in London and will be responsible for its search engine optimisation
strategy and execution. Critical to the engagement is ongoing conversion optimisation
of the website, data analytics and reporting. The account will be run out of
Conversation LAB’s UK office and supported by the agency’s performance and
development hub in South Africa. The UK P&I Club is one of the oldest
P&I clubs in the world protecting shipping globally since 1869. They are
also one of the largest mutual marine protection and indemnity organisations in
the world, insuring over 240 million tonnes of owned and chartered ships from
more than fifty countries across the globe. Kevin Power,
group MD Conversation LAB, said: “This win means a lot to us. We get to work
with a truly remarkable business such as UK P&I, with a size and scale that
dwarfs anything else we do. It fascinates me that the team in Durban and Cape
Town can look out of the office and count up to 30 ships waiting to enter the
harbour and know that most of them are insured by our client! Insurance is a
highly competitive sector which makes our job that much more challenging but
equally rewarding when delivering results. This win also underlines our B2B
capabilities both in SA and globally!” The BRC announces interim
data for RAMS To
alleviate the pressure of no radio data being available as a result of Covid-19
and lockdown, and to get a comprehensive update on the industry the BRC has commissioned research experts, Ask
Afrika, to implement an interim radio data study. As the pandemic hit and
Level 5 lockdown ensued there was no doubt that radio stations in South Africa
would see fluctuations in audience data. Consumers were no longer commuting to
and from work, working hours were altered by home schooling, family life,
restrictions on movement, social interactions and the like. “These shifts in routines
and habits have led to massive changes in media consumption, mainly, increases
in listening and viewing habits,” said Gary Whitaker, CEO at the Broadcast
Research Council (BRC) of South Africa. Another implication is that
the radio research currency was negatively impacted. “As the makeup of the
current underlying research methodology involves face-to-face interaction,
namely, interviewing respondents for RAMS (Radio Audience Measurement), we were
unable to provide data in Q2, Q3 and Q4 of 2020 to demonstrate these irregular
times and differences in listenership audiences,” said Whitaker. According to Sarina de
Beer, MD at Ask Afrika, the focus of the interim measure will be to “support
the industry to gain a deeper understanding of just how radio consumption has
changed over time. As an essential asset we need to leverage the opportunity as
one of the most trusted media sources over time”. The only RAMS data
currently available to the industry is Q1 2020 data and the world has gone
through immense changes since then. To supplement this data, two interim sets
of radio data will be released at the end of March and May 2021. SpaceMatch
launches online marketplace for rental of retail,
event, pop-up and exhibition space SpaceMatch, a fresh new face on the South
African retail landscape, has launched an online portal that allows landlords
with available space to list their properties for prospective tenants to view
and secure for rental. “Think
about it as a matchmaking service for landlords and tenants that offers the
convenience of Airbnb,” said SpaceMatch CEO Kevin Singer. “Retail is an
industry in flux and SpaceMatch is entering the market to provide a new
platform for landlords to find tenants and vice versa.” Retail
markets worldwide are reeling from the effects of Covid-related lockdowns that
have significantly impacted the buying behaviour of consumers and the sales
strategies of retailers. Traditional models have been disrupted and SpaceMatch
meets the need this has created, offering a model that is online and almost
instant. The
platform –– allows landlords (or space owners) to list their sites for free
while potential tenants (or space users) register on the site and apply to rent
spaces that suit their needs and budget. Space
Owners control when and how their spaces can be used and can accept or reject
any enquiries. The whole transaction, including legal contracts and FICA
verifications can be done online (or offline if you prefer) and can be
concluded in a matter of days. Telephonic
payment solution helps companies deal with Covid-19 challenges The novel Coronavirus
has necessitated the need for a sharp step change across nearly every facet of daily life which has, in turn,
rendered the payments landscape ripe for innovation. “The pandemic has forced
us all to do business in new ways, and not all companies have the
means – or inclination – to go completely online. Many consumers still prefer
dealing with a person, as opposed to solely an app or
website,” said Dana Buys, CEO of VerPay Pty Ltd,
a Cape fintech company that specialises in
cloud-based payment. VerPay, allows merchants to do business while speaking to a customer, making it ideal for the hospitality, retail, lifestyle, travel, health and
financial services industries. Buys said there has always been a need to do business
over the phone, yet completing transactions telephonically has been difficult due to the high risk of
fraud and the potential for dispute around terms and conditions. “We wanted to introduce
a highly-secure solution that would facilitate speedy, convenient over-the-phone payment for orders,
deliveries, reservations, deposits, call-out fees, debt collection and more, he
said. VerPay is also ideal for businesses
that make use of a tele-sales or field sales force. By
supporting trusted mobile payment methods such
as Stripe™, MasterPass™, NetCash™, Snapscan™ and
Zapper™, VerPay is immediately available to millions of merchants in
47 countries. More payment methods will be added weekly. Hot reception for Castle
Lite’s Cold Tracker Sometimes delivering
great results for a client demands that an agency takes a proactive stance and
puts an opportunity to innovate on the table. This was the case with Castle
Lite’s award-winning Cold Tracker campaign in Tanzania. As the sixth-largest
market for beer consumption in Africa, Tanzania is an attractive and lucrative
market for both African and global brewers. Castle Lite’s differentiator in this
competitive market was its ‘Extra Cold’ positioning. But
ensuring the brand promise could live up to this hype was proving a challenge
in a country where electricity is expensive and often erratic. Conceptualising
a campaign that was sensitive to these considerations fell to Promise
Agency, which arrived at a solution using technology developed by
Informed Decisions and installed by Thinking Cap Productions, headed by Niel
Mostert. “Castle Lite has always been about Extra Cold, however,
due to electricity costs, a lot of retailers were turning their fridges off.
This wasn’t working for the brand, so we needed to incentivise
outlets to keep fridges on and ensure that Castle Lite was Extra Cold,” explains Marc Watson, Promise Agency co-founder and
executive creative director. Ultimately the Cold
Tracker campaign saw a 26% increase in Castle Lite sales across Tanzania. Making moves 2021 Edelman Trust
Barometer reveals a strong mandate for business to be a force for good in South
Africa The 2021 Edelman Trust
Barometer has revealed that South Africans now trust business more than any
other institution, and are looking to CEOs to solve societal challenges that
have been exacerbated by the Covid-19 crisis. “As the pandemic puts trust
to the test, business has a clear mandate to help society navigate the Covid-19
storm and take the lead on driving positive change, with private sector
organisations expected to fill the void left by government,” said Jordan
Rittenberry, CEO of Edelman Africa. Over the past year, trust
in all four major institutions – business, NGOs, the media and government – has
edged slightly higher as societal leaders take extraordinary steps to address
the crisis, sometimes in collaboration with one another. The 21st annual
Edelman Trust Barometer, which measures trust as a function of competence and
ethics, is based on a nationally representative survey conducted through
October and November 2020. According to the survey,
business has overtaken NGOs as the most trusted institution in South Africa.
This comes after many private organisations took unprecedented steps to protect
their employees and local communities. Numerous firms put people before
short-term profits as they provided customers with relief, donated towards
pandemic response efforts, and launched community initiatives. However, despite modest
gains in their trust scores, the media and government are both still seen as
distrusted, unethical and incompetent. The most critical items on
the agenda, according to the survey results, are the need to improve the
country’s healthcare and education systems, and to address poverty. Meanwhile, as is the case
in other markets, trust in all information sources – search engines,
traditional media, owned media and social media – has significantly declined as
misinformation spreads. News organisations are seen as biased and most South
Africans believe that journalists are intentionally trying to mislead them. Nespresso partners with
Baba Tjeko for its first artist collaboration in SA Nespresso South Africa has announced an exciting collaboration
with local artist, Baba Tjeko, for its new World Explorations coffee range.
Introducing Cape Town Envivo Lungo, the partnership is a major move forward for
the world leader in portioned coffee, which has paid tribute to South Africa by
including the Mother City in the line-up of Nespresso World
Explorations Lungo
coffees. The Nespresso World Explorations collection invites coffee lovers to discover the world’s diverse coffee tastes and traditions. For Cape Town Envivo Lungo, Nespresso wanted to encapsulate the city’s boldness, vibrancy and colour. As such, the brand partnered with local artist, Baba Tjeko, to bring the soul of this coffee-loving city to life. Tjeko, who regards coffee making and coffee drinking as an art form, said, “With World Explorations, Nespresso is celebrating coffee culture in different cities. In the context of Cape Town, it is really a vibrant, colourful city with exciting jazz culture. I took these elements, along with iconic landmarks like Table Mountain and the Ferris wheel, the symbolism of a coffee cup, as well as Nespresso’s Cape Town Envivo Lungo packaging design, and integrated them into my visual language called Ditema, to come up with a design that reflects the beautiful energy of the Mother City through African designs, ideas and perspectives.” Tjeko’s artwork is featured
in the Nespresso boutique
windows at the V&A Waterfront and Canal Walk, in some kiosks across the
country. Diary Hollard presents Big Ads for Small Business Over the next six months,
Hollard will be sharing its advertising space with 12 small businesses. The aim is to give them
marketing support and business tools to help them thrive – investing in better
futures and a better economy for all. Hollard has created an
interactive virtual world to launch Big
Ads for Small Business and would love you to join us on this futuristic
platform to learn more. Date and time: Tuesday 2 March 2021, 10am to 11.30am Speakers: How to join: Simply click here to RSVP by 26 February 2021 For more information,
please email edwin@flowsa.com. Gaming webinar: Take your brand to the next level Through
its ad solutions, Verizon Media can reach over 92 million players in EMEA. With less access to physical events and entertainment many people turned
to online gaming. Now a $155 billion industry worldwide, gaming has become more
diverse, more popular, and more innovative than ever. How can your brand get in
on the action? Join industry leaders in our latest webinar to learn where
gaming is going and what moves you should make to reach your audience at the
other end of the controller. Join Verizon’s
webinar as they share the latest insights and strategies to create next-level
brand content and connect with casuals and competitors across the gaming
landscape. Date:
25 February Time:
10am GMT/11am CET Location: Webinar, register here Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.