Donald Mokgale is the newly appointed CEO for Out There Media Sub-Saharan Africa. A former managing director of Carat Johannesburg, he has been in the industry for 13 years. Formerly development director of Posterscope SA, Mokgale has also worked in Ghana and Kenya. He currently sits on the board of the Advertising Media Forum, and judged the Media Innovation category at the 2019 Loeries Awards as well as the 2019 AMASA Awards. I am 32
years old and so far in my career… I have experienced unbelievable growth and yet I still have so much more
left. I have met the most incredible people, who have shaped me into the person
I am today, from sleepless nights working on big client pitches to late nights
in the heart of Lagos with the team. If I could go back to change one thing, it
would certainly be nothing! What
excites you most about your new position at Out There Media? The
product we are offering, a mobile solution on a mobile-first continent, the
fact that we are looking at Africa and not just South Africa, and working with
highly intelligent people who understand the power of tech to solve specific
problems. There are
challenges attached to this job. What are the key issues you’re tackling and
solutions you foresee? Stakeholder management, media budgets and
bringing awareness of our product to clients. Solutions are building authentic
relationships with all stakeholders and going on tour to raise awareness about
our value proposition. What are
some of the most important lessons you’ve learned on your business journey? Be
authentic, be honest, be ethical, add value and never give up. What’s the
worst job you’ve ever had and why? Sales
executive at Media Foundry, because it wasn’t in line with what I wanted for
myself and the company culture was misaligned with who I am. The
quality you most respect in people is… Respect
for people regardless of position or stature. Your pet
hate is… Disrespect. I cannot tolerate this. What
scares you most… Not being myself. Your best
qualities are… Self-awareness, social intelligence and gift of
the gab. Your worst
qualities are… Impatience, being too hard on myself and not
switching off. Your
personal motto is… Excellence is perpetual motion with no arrival. A perfect
day would be… Abeach
holiday with all my favourite people in my life, divine meals and music. If you
could have dinner with someone living or dead it would be… Kwame
Nkrumah, best African leader ever to have lived. The
gadget/s you can’t live without and why… Phone,
laptop, powerbank. Your addiction
is… Stimulating conversation, great food, style,
Japanese sports cars, anime, battle rap, lo-fi hip-hop and neo soul music. Your
death-row meal would be… Jollof rice, fried plantain and goat meat. You think the rest of 2020 will be… As unapologetically bizarre as it has been, and a provoker of innovation and change. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.