The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: CWDi partners with creative consultant Ahmed Tilly Marketing and brand
experience experts, CWDi, have joined forces with creative consultant
Ahmed Tilly, as they reposition the agency to offer a full through the line
service. Ahmed Tilly is an established creative problem solver with
25 years of experience in advertising agencies, often referred to in the
industry as ‘Mr Nando’s’, due to the award-winning Nando’s campaigns he created
in 14 countries around the world. He has judged the Loeries for close to two
decades and has also served on international award panels including both the
Cannes Lions and New York festivals. “The repositioning of
CWDi was a natural progression for us. We have built a reputable foundation in
the brand agency space, with amazing long-standing clients. So, the question we
asked ourselves was, ‘how can we be better for our clients and their
customers?’ The answer was simple: increase our service offerings and ensure
that we continue to place our clients and their customers at the centre of our
creative solutions,” said Craig Naicker, group managing director at CWDi. “Ahmed
is an industry heavyweight; well-known and well respected in his craft. He
shares the same vision as us. And that is to create work that changes lives for
the better”. People moves New appointments to the BRC
board Algoa FM managing director, Alfie Jay, has been elected to the board of the Broadcast Research Council of South Africa (BRC). This follows an election process by the BRC’s Radio members to fill two vacancies on the board of directors. Four nominees had been
proposed, of which Jay and Primedia’s Melissa McNally garnered the majority of
the votes. The goal of the BRC, a
non-profit industry body, is to provide objective, transparent data, which
caters to the audience measurement needs of the radio, television, marketing
and advertising industries in South Africa. “What an exciting time to
be appointed to the board. “We’re about to launch into a whole new era of data
gathering and analyses, and I can’t wait to measure its impact;” said Jay, who
joins the Board with thirty-one years of experience in broadcasting, almost
half of which was at Board level. McNally is a seasoned research consultant of 15 years with an MA in research psychology from the University of the Witwatersrand. “I am absolutely thrilled and honoured to secure a seat on the BRC board. “2021 promises to be an exciting year for radio research and I am delighted to be a part of this journey.” The full board consists
of: Monde Twala (chairperson), Antonio Lee, Angie Hammond and Fahmeeda
Cassim-Surtee from television; with Tracy Stafford; Johan Van Rooyen, Jay and
McNally from radio. Joe
Public Cape Town welcomes Lizanne Peters Lizanne
Peters has recently been appointed as business unit director at Joe Public Cape
Town. Peters has over 16 years’ industry experience across various sectors such
as FMCG, insurance, investment, banking, healthcare and retail as well as four
years’ experience as the Brand Manager at Distell and WWF. Joe
Public United – a leading brand and communications group launched its Cape Town
agency in 2020 as the newest addition to the family! It has enabled the group
to expand its capabilities and extend its unique offering to markets outside of
Johannesburg. “We are really pleased to welcome Lizanne to the team, we know she will bring great value to both our business as well as to our clients,” said Brendan Hoffmann, executive creative director, Joe Public Cape Town. Grant Flynn joins Rapid Blue as creative development head Rapid Blue has welcomed Grant Flynn as head of creative development. He joins Rapid Blue at the end of February, and will be responsible for building on the impressive pipe line of unscripted formats and shows and also exploring and developing new opportunities, IP and hit series for Rapid Blue for audiences both here in Africa and globally. Flynn joins a recently bolstered team of industry leading creatives at Rapid Blue which will see Ziyanda Mngomezulu promoted to MD in April alongside Kim Thwaites, who becomes head of television, Tsubi Mapiyeye, who becomes supervising producer and Adi de Lancey, who recently joined Rapid Blue as a senior executive producer. Flynn
said “I’m excited to be joining a powerhouse production company like Rapid Blue
and to be working alongside such incredibly well-respected industry
professionals. Rapid Blue is synonymous with creating world-class content and I
can’t wait to be part of that journey.” Duncan
Irvine, CEO of Rapid Blue, said, “Rapid Blue is well known for being a
production company made up of passionate, innovative creatives who together
have a great track record of localising the world’s leading formats along with
driving inventive content to meet local and global audiences’ evolving tastes.
Having Grant join the team, will help us to build on this legacy of bringing
audiences more of what they love but also exploring new ideas and productions
to keep things fresh, exciting and above all entertaining for all. Welcome to
the team Grant, we are thrilled to have you.” Music promoter Adrian Skirrow joins Radio Caroline Adrian Skirrow has joined Radio Caroline’s team of presenters. A broadcaster and concert promoter, Skirrow’s career has spanned working for and running multi-national music labels, as well as having his own independent label and concert promotions business. He also presented a weekly rock show on LM
Radio from Johannesburg between 2018 and 2019. Skirow has worked with acts from OMD to The
Cult, working in A&R while promoting and touring their new albums. While Skirrow is a former Yorkshire native, he has spent some years working in South Africa before returning to the UK to live in Kent. He started his first show on Radio Caroline on 6 February 2021 at 1am. Business moves HaveYouHeard adds fourth office to its network HaveYouHeard, the
full-service brand and strategic agency, has added a fourth office to its
network that already spans Cape Town, Johannesburg and London. The agency has merged with
KwaZulu-Natal digital hotshop STIR, started by Kirsty Bisset nine years ago and will trade as
HaveYouHeard Durban. STIR has grown year-on-year
working with the likes of Edcon, SA Natural Products, Ultra Liquors, Serta,
Accenture, Lodestone and Toys R Us and more. In July 2016, it launched its
first US-based client into the digital space and in 2018 expanded to the UAE. Bisset will continue to
lead HaveYouHeard Durban as managing director and is looking to the ‘mother’
agency to give her the ability to further extend her international footprint
from an office with a view of the Indian Ocean. Samsung and Moving
Tactics confirm Africa partnership With business challenges
under the spotlight as a result of COVID-19, Samsung and Moving Tactics, a digital
signage solutions company in South Africa, have announced the renewal of their
partnership in Africa, which initially kicked off in 2011. Digital signage
solutions have come to the fore and its applications have never been more
important. It has become an impactful way to provide crucial information to the
end-user quickly, accurately and in a socially-distanced format. For almost a decade, the
partnership has allowed both companies to solidify their position as true
industry innovators and resulted in digital signage installations being
implemented for major brands such as McDonald’s, MTN, Edgars, and Clicks
Pharmacy, with a CAPEX value exceeding R100m. Google launches second Google News Initiative in Africa, the Middle East, and Turkey Google has announced
the second Google News Initiative Innovation Challenge in
Africa, the Middle East and Turkey with an open call for projects that increase
reader engagement and explore new business models for media. The first GNI
Innovation Challenge saw 21 projects in 13 countries receive funding
last year. Awardees were from Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Iraq, Israel, Jordan,
Kenya, Lebanon, Morocco, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Turkey, and the
UAE. Applications must be made via the website and are open until Monday, 12 April at
23:59 GMT. There will be an online town hall on 3 March at 13.00 GMTwith a live presentation on how to apply, with an
opportunity to ask questions to the GNI team. Just Exists, a new agency with a
difference The South African landscape of creativity
is one that can best be described as a melting pot, bubbling over with ideas
and insights unique to our heritage, our experiences and our potential. The
country and continent at large is naturally a hub filled with opportunity but
in reality, these opportunities do not always trickle through the cracks of
bureaucracy and status quo- a challenge that has remained constant for years.
This was something the founding members sought to address in a real way, when
Just Exists was born. Made up of four creatives from various
disciplines in the marketing and advertising industries, Just Exists is not
playing by any of the long established industry rules that have long governed advertising.
These young black go getters are unapologetically pushing the passion that
drives them, and plan to shake things up in a positive way for Africans at
large. Nomkhosi Mkhalipi, Ashley ‘Shimza’ Raphala,
Hoosain Van Roos and Malenah Bapela form the leadership of the agency and come
with invaluable experience in strategy, ideation and through the line
marketing. The collective has experience with a sizeable number of
collaborations with global brands and are committed to breathing new life in the
creative marketing space in a way that tells authentic stories through uniquely
African eyes. CWDi appointed as Ontec
YOUtility’s TTL agency Ontec
YOUtility has awarded CWDi its through-the-line marketing work. Seen
as an extension of Ontec YOUtility’s own Marketing team, CWDi will
use its creativity to bring reach and connections together while delivering on
ROI. “CWDi is honoured to welcome the Ontec
YOUtility brand to its stable of clients.  Ontec YOUtility is a challenger
brand that believes in purpose led plans that build long term connections with
its customers. We love working with clients that have the same shared values as
us. We are excited to be part of the team that helps move Ontec YOUtility into
the future and definitely see this relationship as a partnership. A big thank
you goes out to the team who worked tirelessly during the pitch process, this
is really not a bad way to start 2021,” said Craig Naicker, group MD. Ontec YOUtility is a
specialist utility management (electricity, water and gas) solutions provider. Idea Hive partners with Deep Learning Cafe Idea Hive, the specialist digital marketing and brand
storytelling agency, has partnered with the renowned Deep Learning Café, an AI
solutions specialist that builds high valued engineered solutions that actively
assist businesses to better understand their data, optimise time, resources and
increase profits. Idea Hive has been telling
heartfelt brand stories for a variety of blue-chip organisations for years and
understands the significance of the science of
consumer behaviour, which is fundamentally important to any marketing
intervention. “It stands to reason then, that we join forces with an
AI specialist like Deep Learning Café, which will give us the competitive edge
with our clients. Digital marketing analytics has given rise to a superpower
that data holds, which can assist a brand in gaining access to who (will buy),
what (will it serve) and where (will it sell) in your potential market. These
three critical inputs strategically place a product or service into an ideal
market, avoiding the shoot-in-the dark tactic, mitigating unnecessary risk,” said
Yaw Dwomoh, CEO of Idea Hive. BBC Studios produced series The Watch gathers global
audience ‫ ‫ BBC Studios has announced
at its Showcase 2021 event that The Watch has secured a raft of sales across
the globe. Melding fantasy, comedy and crime, the high-concept drama
series inspired by the characters of Sir Terry Pratchett’s Discworld novels,
has secured a raft of sales across the globe. A BBC Studios Production, The
Watch is a modern and inclusive series with broad appeal, originally
commissioned for BBC America. The Watch has been sold to
M-Net across sub-Saharan Africa, TVNZ in New Zealand, yes in Israel, Cosmote TV
in Greece, Telefonica in Spain, and to Viasat World across Russia and CIS.
Airline passengers will also be able to view the series on Emirates. A critically praised
series, featuring a bold cast of characters, The Watch resonates with audiences
worldwide as buyers snap up the star-studded series which has already been sold
to and premiered in Australia (Stan), China (Bilibili), and Russia (Kinopoisk).
BBC First has also started to air the series in Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong
and Taiwan. Primedia Outdoor celebrates Valentine’s Day once
again with their outstanding #PrimediaBigLove campaign For the third consecutive year, Primedia Outdoor
celebrated Valentine’s day in the most extraordinary way with their renowned
#PrimediaBigLove campaign. The campaign invites the public to send their loved
ones a personalised message via their social media platforms Twitter and
Facebook and then have their message displayed across Primedia Outdoors’
digital screens on roadside and in mall environments. This fully-automated digital campaign is a true
testament of the synergistic application between Digital Out-of-Home and Social
Media, and serves to prove the immediacy and interactive capability of DOOH. “Digital out of home can be used as a strategic
platform to connect with audiences on a personalised level and to generate
direct consumer responses,” said Jorja Wilkins, marketing and marketing
services executive at Primedia Outdoor. DUKE and Copysmith partner
for AI writing services DUKE
has recently signed up as the first South African enterprise to partner with
Copysmith, the AI copywriting and content generation platform. The unique
conceptualisation tool will be utilised by the agency to explore creative
concepts, help with brand essence generation and speed up the copywriting and
ideation process. While
some agencies might shy away from the technology, DUKE has embraced the idea
with a view to enhancing and accelerating the creative process. Commented
DUKE ECD, Suhana Gordhan: “The initial reaction to this could easily be fear
and dread. Is AI about to take away our jobs? But the more you get into it, the
more you realise that this tool is made more powerful by the human who helps
teach it. And I love that – it’s not about fear but rather meeting the future
and making fast friends with it. Copysmith is a powerful tool that we believe
will boost our capacity and help us to create faster. Our creative and
strategic teams are able to generate a multitude of ideas and explore creative
territory really quickly. There has huge potential to enhance so many areas of
creativity in our business.” Quest
Chooses DataGroupIT as African Distribution Partner Quest, a leader in new generation data protection solutions for
physical, virtual and cloud environments, has named DataGroupIT as its
distribution partner for Quest and One Identity across Africa. This strategic
partnership is set to strengthen Quest’s delivery model across the continent.
With its security focus, DataGroupIT brings expertise in the sale and
distribution of premiere security products in Africa. According to Andrew
Voges, Africa Director at Quest, this new partnership will strengthen growth
markets and enlarge Quest’s footprint, effectively bringing technology to all
markets throughout Africa. New campaigns Kfm
‘Music Saves The Day’ drives daytime listening Kfm 94.5 is bringing to life its positioning of ‘The most
music. Feel great’ through its latest workplace-listening marketing campaign. The new campaign celebrates the positive role music plays
during the time of staying at, and working from, home. Kfm’s ‘Music Saves The
Day’ gives daytime the opportunity to win their share of R20 000 cash. To do
this, they need to identify the song of the day as played in the station’s
popular 7-in-a-row feature. The Kfm Mornings team is also getting in on the fun
as they announce the song of the day at 08:40 every morning. The competition
runs until Wednesday 3 March with the winners’ announcement on Friday 5 March. Research shows that currently 79% of radio listening in
the Western Cape happens from home. The use of apps for radio listening is also
increasing, with 43% of listeners in the Western
Cape stating that they have used an app to listen to the radio. In general,
music dominates when it comes to preferred content, with the Western Cape
experiencing an increase in music consumption and listenership between the
hours of 09:00 and 15:00*. Cell C, Joe Public – an invitation to change your world The ink was barely dry on the news of Cell C’s
appointment of brand and communications group Joe Public United as their lead
agency, when the new partners sprang into an action plan to launch the mobile
operator’s next step into growth. The
result is Cell C’s latest integrated campaign, repositioning the value mobile
brand with the bold new pay-off line of ‘Change Your World’. The
Cell C Change Your World campaign launched with a 90-second TV film, revealing
the growth journey of a football-mad young girl who, in the shadow of her two
brothers, has to go above and beyond to fight for her passion and make her mark
in the world. Here’s to the people!
MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet salutes its everyday heroes with new campaign MySchool MyVillage
MyPlanet’s new Here’s to the People Campaign celebrates the ‘everyday heroes’
who have supported the community loyalty programme, a leader in the South
African community upliftment, to the tune of R760 million over the last 23
years. The campaign puts all the ‘faceless’ supporters front and centre,
encouraging new ‘supporters’ to also become everyday heroes by joining the
movement that does so much good for those who need it most across South
Africa. Since its inception,
MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet has contributed to thousands of schools and charitable
organisations around the country, with their work recently recognised at the
2020 South African Loyalty Awards, where the brand took home the titles of both
Best Loyalty Programme of the Year –
Open Category and the Best
Community or Environmental Initiative of the Year. Now MySchool MyVillage
MyPlanet is turning its attention to its supporters who make all this possible,
those everyday heroes who always remember to swipe their MySchool MyVillage
MyPlanet cards every time they shop at any of programme’s retail partners. “This campaign may be
one of the most important we have done so far. To show our millions of everyday
heroes that we see and appreciate the contribution they have made, and continue
to make, is something that we hope will inspire other people across the country
to also become MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet supporters,” said Pieter Twine, GM
of the community loyalty programme. OFyt creates new visual
language for Jack & Coke Jack Daniel’s and
Coca-Cola are two globally renowned American brands that when combined, make a
smooth and refreshing beverage for any occasion. For the first time, these two
iconic brands will partner with the launch of a unifying visual language
created by Cape Town based agency, Old Friends Young Talent (OFyt). The work encapsulates the
number one on premise bar call in the world, ‘Jack & Coke’. The partnership
between the two brands dates back as early as 1907 with the delicious duo
featuring as the mix of choice across stage and screen and even the pages of
popular novels. Brandt Botes, head of design at OFyt, said: “These two brands are undeniably rich in history and celebrated around the world. It’s this cultural understanding that gave us permission to create a unifying visual language where these two icons meet, in our smooth and refreshing perfect serve.” Consumers often refer to
Jack & Coke as ‘old friends’ and new campaign is built on the smooth and
refreshing taste of the classic pairing and its versatility to be mixed and
enjoyed no matter the occasion and place. Eskort celebrates Mzansi with new visual language Eskort has taken on a bold
and colourful new look inspired by the country’s unique trading environments
from the padstal on a lonely road
winding past an isolated farm to the spaza squeezed in-between a cellphone
repair shop and a hairdresser on a bustling square alongside a taxi rank. Under-pinning the heritage
brand’s new look and feel is its desire to speak to the people of Mzansi in
their native tongue using both a visual language and the written word while
walking that fine line between remaining true to the brand’s 103-year history
and ensuring it resonates with the tapestry that is modern-day South African
culture. MetropolitanRepublic’s
design team, led by Liam Longland, relied on classic design principles and
proven techniques to navigate the brand refresh journey, opening their hearts
and minds to understand the relationship between Eskort and the people of
Mzansi, and reflect it in the new corporate identity. For the new positioning,
they created bespoke typefaces and iconography and illustrations to build an
entirely new visual system for the brand.   The result is a vibrant, energetic,
instantly-recognisable-as-Mzansi personality that is proudly South African,
rooted in both the brand’s history and the modern culture of the country. Pepsi launches a bold new world of fizz At a time when the world
could use a little more fizz, Pepsi has delivere in a highly entertaining new
campaign that will cut across cultural playgrounds with the uncontainable fizz
of the brand. From thumb-stopping
social content to its latest UEFA Champions League Football campaign, FIZZ
brings together the delicious taste of Pepsi with the passions of those who
love drinking it. This year’s global
football campaign in support of the UEFA Champions League partnership across
Men’s and Women’s keeps the fizz going with energetic entertainment for fans
around the world. Once again, Pepsi brings together an impressive lineup of the
world’s best footballers, expanding its roster led by reigning GOAT Leo Messi
and world champion Paul Pogba, with two new additions to the squad: Borussia
Dortmund sensation Jadon Sancho, and UEFA Women’s Champions League winner
Shanice van de Sanden. Messi commented: “I
am excited to once again be a part of the Pepsi football squad. This year has
been so much fun to film; I know fans are going to love it.” Making moves A cover of firsts for GQ
SA in March The March/April 2021 edition of GQ magazine celebrates a number of firsts. Firstly, it is Molife Kumona’s first issue as GQ SA’s editor. The former head of online at the publication, has undoubtedly arrived in the hallowed editors realm, with a publication that he describes as a “bucket list” issue, packed with a punch. Gracing the magazine’s
cover for the first time is award winning, stand-up comic, Loyiso Gola. Gola,
who after two decades in the comedy business, with sold out shows and two Emmy
nominations, is still making waves. In fact, it is Gola who heads yet
another first – Netflix’s debut African Original Special – Unlearning by Loyiso
Gola – that was also shot in Africa. Also, a beginning for
this collector’s issue, is creative director and Stylist Boogy Maboi, who
worked with GQ SA for the first time – and certainly not the last. Kumona remarked:
“Stewarding South Africa’s pre-eminent men’s magazine is quite a responsibility
and would have been incredibly daunting were it not for the exceptional team I
get to work with every day and the fun we and the contributors to this issue,
had, in putting it all together. “We shot the cover at the
Zeitz Mocaa in Cape Town, the largest art museum in Africa, and which is also
where Loyiso shot his special.  Incidentally, and you guessed it, was also
a first for the museum.  We cemented that history by shooting the cover
there, which is also a first.” Ground-breaking speaker line-up announced for 6th FORBES WOMAN AFRICA
Leading Women Summit In the wake of a
tumultuous period in history, many are reflecting on lessons learnt in 2020
while seeking guidance on how to navigate this new reality going forward.
Bringing together the continent’s most powerful female voices, the FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women
Summit (LWS) will take on a guiding role, hinging the conversation on this
year’s dynamic theme – Africa Reloaded: The Power of The Collective. Coinciding
with International Women’s Day, the 6th #LeadingWomanSummit, presented by
Mastercard, will run from 8 to 9 March 2021, boasting an impactful speaker line-up
for this free-to-attend virtual platform. Roberta Naicker, MD of
the ABN Group, said the event was a ‘solutions-driven platform’ for women
seeking a change in the global narrative: “We have seen that people don’t just
want to talk about their problems, they really want to understand how they can
actually roll up their sleeves and solve them. We’re looking forward to great
conversations this year that tackle global challenges.” #LWS2021 speaker line-up M-Net Movies to launch
pop-up channel dedicated to kickass women in March Don’t be blinded by their
beauty. They are smart, strong, certainly not to be messed with. These are the
leading action ladies that will command your screens when M-Net launches its
pop-up channel dedicated to the powerful women in action movies in March. Dubbed the M-Net Movies
Pretty Deadly Pop-up Channel starring Leading Ladies of Action, this thrilling
pop-up channel, which will be available to DStv Premium customers, will air on
DStv Channel 111 from Friday, 19 March, at 10:30 and end on Sunday, 4 April,
shortly after midnight. The launch of the channel
coincides with the celebration of women’s contributions throughout history and
in contemporary society, as March is proclaimed Women’s History Month. The pop-up channel
consists of an incredible collection of heroine action movies that pack a
punch. Among the gems are the most acclaimed butt-kicking films. These
include Brie Larson’s Captain Marvel, Charlize Theron’s Atomic Blonde, Scarlett Johansson’s Lucy, Zoe
Saldana’s Colombiana,
and Angelina Jolie’s Salt. Crime
Watch – persistently raising
awareness about crime As the men and women in
blue continue their tireless effort to put criminals behind bars, Crime Watch is right by their side
highlighting crime and their policing. Crime
Watch, a popular current-affairs show, was
re-introduced in November last year and covers issues including amongst others
kidnappings, cash-in-transit heists, car hijackings, the illicit tobacco trade
and courier van robberies. In an exclusive interview
to be aired on Tuesday, 2 March 2021, Yusuf Abramjee sits down with National Police Commissioner General Khehla
Sithole. South Africa’s top cop will answer questions on a range of
issues, including the latest crime statistics, corruption, alcohol abuse and
poor service at many police stations. “Crime
statistics show that criminals continue to run rampant. We need to all
join hands and fight crime at every turn,” Abramjee said. Crime Watch airs on Tuesday nights at 9.30pm on eNCA DStv channel 403. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.