The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Realness Institute and Netflix extend Episodic Lab
entry deadline, and launch development executive traineeship Realness Institute’s
newest programme, Episodic Lab, created in partnership with Netflix, has
received an overwhelmingly positive response from members of the industry
online and offline. The deadline has thus been extended. Online submissions will now close upon
receiving 150 additional applications or on the 8 February 2021, whichever
comes first. The Episodic Lab offers
African writers from South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria the opportunity to nurture
their concepts into the series format, receive feedback and pitch them with the
possibility of further production with Netflix. As part of the
partnership, Realness Institute and Netflix will also run a Development Executive Traineeship (DET).
While the Episodic Lab is open to applicants from Nigeria, Kenya and South
Africa, the DET will be open to applicants from across Africa and the Diaspora.
It is aimed at film professionals with an interest of being trained as story
consultants or to gain insight into the story development process, working with
writers and directors in the development of their stories. “Development is a crucial part of the creative process in storytelling.
At Netflix, we’re fully committed to partnering with organisations like
Realness Institute to achieve our goal of ensuring Africa’s creative
professionals are equipped with all the skills necessary to deliver the quality
best-in-class stories from our continent,” saidDorothy Ghettuba, Netflix Manager for African
Originals. In another move, with a
view to recruiting and promoting new Animation talents, Netflix and GOBELINS are
currently offering six
scholarships for students from the African continent for the September 2021 intake: The scholarships will benefit six students who will successfully be
admitted to GOBELINS’ Bachelor of Arts in Character
Animation and Animated Filmmaking and Master of Arts in Character Animation and Animated
Filmmaking. They will cover the tuition fees for the entire length of the programme (3
years for the BA, 2 years for the MA). ATTENTION:
Scholarships selection results for both programmes will be announced in June
2021 for students to start their academic year in September 2021. People moves Ogilvy Cape Town appoints new creative leader As part of a renewed
strategy and reorganisation of the Cape Town business, Ogilvy has appointed
Camilla Clerke as its new executive creative director (ECD). “Camilla is widely
respected in the industry, with a depth of marketing experience,” said Ogilvy
Cape Town MD Vicki Buys. “We are thrilled to have her on board to take us
forward as a comms and brand practice creating impactful work that reaches the
customers of our clients in the most surprising, delightful and effective way
possible.” Clerke joins the team in
February, having previously worked in above-the-line, digital and integrated
advertising roles at Metropolitan Republic, HelloComputer and HelloFCB+. “I believe in working to
distil a human insight to solve business problems,” says Clerke. “…For me, it’s
about using powerful, insight-driven creative solutions to connect brands to
their audiences at the right time, with strong relevance. I’m incredibly
excited that I now have the chance to do that at the most digitally minded,
future-forward creative agency in South Africa.” Wunderman Thompson SA’s
Leadership Expands with Industry Heavyweights Having recently announced
the appointment of Qingqile ‘WingWing’ Mdlulwa as Group CCO to Wunderman
Thompson SA, the agency has introduced two more senior individuals who will
join the executive team: Colett Naidu as division managing director role with
Telkom and ABSA, and Tshego Tshukutswane as group chief strategy officer. Naidu has been part of the
agency team since May 2017 as a group account director. The agency created a
new role for a new division that will focus primarily on Telkom Group and ABSA
Retail Business Banking. Naidu officially takes on the responsibility from
January, advancing from her position as Business Unit Director. Agency
CEO, Miles Murphy shared, “Colett has done an amazing job leading our team
working with Telkom, and we are so proud of the work we do for them. She has
consistently exuded ambitious energy effortlessly advancing the work we do for
some of our largest clients.” Throughout her 13 years in
the advertising business, Naidu has gained experience across renowned brands,
including Edgars, Unilever, Clover, Tiger Brands, Omega Labs, and Boehringer
Ingelheim, ABSA and Standard Bank Digital. Tshukutswane will join in
April succeeding Moagi Bodibe. He recently took up independent consulting.
Tshukutswane has a formidable reputation as a strategic marketer who
effortlessly unlocks human-centric growth for brands and transforms businesses.
She boasts 20 years of brand strategy experience with Unilever and Kimberly
Clark’s client roles. She gained deep brand consulting experience at Added
Value and most recently as Business Director for Kantar Consulting. She has
also served as a non-executive director on the NCC Environmental Services and
Standard Insurance Limited’s Board of Directors. New executive
appointments at Edelman Africa as regional integration deepens As Edelman Africa fosters
deeper collaboration with its peers in the Middle East, the pan-African
communications firm has expanded its executive team with several new internal
promotions. Last week, the global
communications firm announced an integration between its Middle East and Africa
(MEA) offices as part of a renewed strategy focused on unlocking growth through
international collaboration. Edelman Africa CEO,
Jordan Rittenberry, has assumed an expanded role of chairman, MEA, while
continuing in his capacity as CEO for Africa. As part of its continued commitment
to growing local talent, a group of the firm’s veterans have been appointed to
new executive positions at Edelman’s offices in Johannesburg. After several years of expanding the firm’s Advisory Practice, Karena
Crerar will be taking on the role of managing director for South Africa where
she will oversee the firm’s business across South Africa. Reputation practice lead, Caroline Carstens, has been promoted to chief
operating officer, Africa where she will continue formalising efficiencies in
each of the markets within which we operate. Meanwhile, Brand practice lead Mpumelelo Zondi will be leading the
expansion and scale of this practice across Africa as well as overseeing the
growth of Edelman’s regional creative hub of integrated solutions. Kgomotso Moalusi will be taking the reigns of the Advisory team as the
new practice lead, where she will have oversight of the firm’s crisis
capabilities as well as its public affairs, investor relations and employee
engagement counsel for clients. Levergy appoints Ray
Langa as managing director Sport and entertainment
agency Levergy, an M&C Saatchi Sports & Entertainment company and part
of M&C Saatchi Group South Africa has begun a new chapter with the
promotion of Ray Langa from business unit director to MD. Langa will assume
control of all day-to-day management of the business, with co-founder and CEO
Clint Paterson’s mandate shifting heavily towards strategic growth in line with
the M&C Saatchi Sport and Entertainment group strategy. “I’m humbled and excited
by the opportunity,” says Langa. “I am joining an exceptionally strong
leadership group that drives a remarkable culture inside the agency. To be
given the chance to lead the ‘Levergists’ into the future alongside the other
partners is a challenge I’m relishing. Our sector has never faced more
uncertainty, but it brings about massive potential to evolve and take quantum
leaps forward for our industry. I have no doubt that we’ve got exactly the
right mix of people and partners to make sure we maintain our position as
market leaders in sport and entertainment.” Bosch Rexroth South Africa
appoints new group marketing manager The Bosch Rexroth South Africa Group of Companies promoted Gillian Allin
to the position of group marketing manager effective 1 January 2021. Allin fills the shoes of recently retired Willem Gijzelaar, having
reported to him for 10 years while fulfilling
the role of group marketing communications specialist. She joined the Bosch
Rexroth South Africa Group in February 2011 and has worked her way through the
ranks within the marketing department. “Over the past 10 years Gillian has accumulated vast experience in
marketing the Group, its solutions, products, services and people to our
relevant target markets,” said Verna Simpson, group HR executive. “We wish her
every success in her new position and assure her of our full support.” Business moves A new model content collective that
works for brands, creatives – and other agencies 2Stories
is a new content collective by serial entrepreneur Joanne Hope and seasoned
content director Anelde Greeff. Not ‘just another content agency’, 2Stories
offers boutique-level service with big agency experience that turns the usual
model on its head. “Imagine
a traditional content marketing agency. We’re not that,” explained chief operating
officer Hope. “We are a new genre. Think smaller, and with way more flex
appeal. We speak, write, strategise, conceptualise, plan, direct and produce
content marketing fluently.” 2Stories
believes in work that is driven by humans, not channels. Both founders bring a
wealth of editorial experience to the table: Greeff spent 15 years at New Media
in various roles such as head of content: food division, editor-in-chief of Eat
Out, and content director of Woolworths TASTE. She is currently also a director
of SheSays Cape Town – Africa’s first chapter of the global movement focused on
the engagement, education and advancement of women in creative industries. Hope
was general manager of the South African operations for global content
marketing agency John Brown Media, where she oversaw operations and client
service for Capitec, Life Healthcare, Old Mutual and BMW Mini among others. She
is also the founder of cannabis lifestyle brand KushKush. South Africa’s first
financial literacy TV game show launches The Sanlam Group
has put its weight behind South Africa’s first financial literacy-focused TV
game show, Sanlam Moola Money Family Game Show. The show, which has a strong
emphasis on fun for participants and viewers, will air on Saturday, 3April.
It aims to play a meaningful role in improving financial knowledge among South
Africans – while entertaining viewers in an innovative and accessible format. Families will compete for
a weekly R50 000 prize and an overall prize of R500 000. The Sanlam
sponsored game show will see the families take part in a series of fun
challenges to educate contestants and viewers about smart money and financial
management. Expert financial coaches will be on hand to support the families
and share insights. Sydney Mbhele, chief executive:
brand at Sanlam, said, “Financial education has a massive impact on the
financial security and prosperity of South Africans. Knowing how to successfully
budget, manage debt and spending, invest, and save can help this generation,
and generations to come, become financially confident and resilient.” Virtual First, world’s largest
interactive virtual showroom, designed in South Africa The Covid-19 pandemic affected every single business in
one way or another but, amid this hardship, opportunities arose for those who
were able to look at things differently and innovate. One such company did
exactly that and has just produced one of the world’s largest virtual retail
showrooms. Dave Nemeth, founder and managing director of Trend
Forward, created a platform suited to virtual events including custom expo
stands, interactivity and all the necessary content available, at the push of a
button. The entire experience was a visual feast and, although it resembled a
real exhibition, it was all created in 2D. Through the process of research, creating and
learning, the company realised that, although brick and mortar retail will
never die, the dynamics are changing. Retail stores are getting smaller and
online retail is generally boring. With this in mind, Trend Forward started
creating realistic 3D environments, which could be viewed on any device and
even by using VR goggles. These environments are fully interactive as you
journey your way through a world that can take on any look and feel, enabling
clients to have no design restrictions such as those that you would potentially
experience with the creation of a physical store or showroom. The demo platform struck a lot of interest. However, as is the case with most things, especially in the retail game, people tend to wait until someone else applies innovation before they themselves follow suit. Cobra, an iconic brand who are well known for their taps and sanitary ware, jumped at the opportunity and decided to go as big as they possibly could and to align the new technology with their re-brand. The result is one of the biggest virtual showrooms you will find – in fact, it is a series of showrooms. Surfing South Africa renews long-term
partnership with Accelerate Sport Surfing
South Africa, the officially governing body for surfriding in South Africa, has
renewed its long-term partnership with Accelerate Sport on a four-year
contract. The renewed agreement is a
testament to the collaborative partnership the two organisations have had in
the past and will continue going forward. “The renewal of this
contract is a significant vote of confidence in Accelerate Sport’s services and
effectiveness over the years,” said Robin de Kock, GM of Surfing South Africa.
“Accelerate Sport has been a valued partner whose industry knowledge and
experience has helped us evolve to stay on the forefront of the surfing
industry in South Africa to date”. Accelerate Sport has worked
with and supported Surfing South Africa as the exclusive commercial and
marketing agency since December 2016. The Cape Town-based marketing agency will
continue to be responsible for the marketing strategies and activities to
exploit Surfing South Africa’s commercial products. By extending this
partnership, the agency will continue providing leading marketing capabilities
and differentiated solutions to drive Surfing South Africa’s continued growth
and success within South Africa. The Lime Envelope secures up-and-coming law firm, Lopes Attorneys Public relations and communication agency, The Lime Envelope, has announced that the
agency has secured the rapidly rising law firm Lopes Attorneys as a client. Founded by the dynamic
and ambitious Rui Lopes, Lopes
Attorneys is a specialised law firm that is grounded in a ‘client first’
philosophy. This is the approach the firm is taking into the African market
with a drive for success in mind. Lopes established the firm based on his
vision to provide cost-effective and cutting-edge legal services throughout
Africa. The firm specialises in
general dispute resolution, anti-bribery and corruption and healthcare. One of
the factors that distinguishes the practice is the firm’s dedicated animal
welfare division. This is something that is not offered by many law firms in
South Africa. Instinctif Partners
launches ESG and responsibility offering Instinctif Partners has
launched a new offering which enables businesses to build back better in a
post-Covid world by integrating environmental, social and governance issues in
their strategies and business activity. With COP26 on the horizon,
the new service, Reinventing Responsibility, builds on Instinctif’s significant
experience in ESG, developing sustainable business strategies and corporate
transformation, and provides comprehensive integrated consulting services which
address the heightened challenges faced by companies today. The Reinventing
Responsibility offering provides clients with services spanning three core
pillars including strategic development, stakeholder engagement and reporting
and disclosure. The approach to each element will always be set in a wider
stakeholder context, grounded in richly insightful perspectives across its
blended team. Instinctif Partners
Africa’s Managing Partner, Corporate and Public Affairs, Kim Polley, will lead
the Africa team, whose expertise draws on a breadth of disciplines, including
insight and foresight; brand and business strategy; business resilience; public
policy; investor relations; digital; corporate reporting; design and
communications. “Today’s announcement is the culmination of a lot of hard work by
various teams across Instinctif globally – and with COP26 just nine months
away, I am delighted to share that we are officially launching Reinventing
Responsibility across our entire EMEA business,” said Polley. Free workout at home and a chance to
win prizes while you are at it South Africans can expect
a full-on, jam-packed fitness, health and active routine to follow this year.
The 5 Colour Fitness show
launched its third season during the festive season, with secret locations,
phenomenal trainers, and a fun cast. Season 4 kicks off this month and will run
throughout February and March 2021. FHA Fitness, Health and Active, a sister
company of the Gresham Group, successfully launched two seasons of the show on
DStv’s SuperSport channels earlier in 2020. 5
Colour Fitness will broadcast as normal
from Monday to Friday at 07h00 and again at 17h00, with repeats on weekends at
the same times on SuperSport channel 209 Variety 4. The show is also available
on DStvCatch Up and Showmax. The trainers are from
around the country, and the new season will showcase trainers Zinhle Masango
(fitness junkie), Christy Ann Du Plessis, Talitha van Dyk, Jessica Naylor,
Lelani Loots, Phelo Mfini, Lucky Fadzi, JP Lamont, as well as our much-loved
trainers from season 1, namely Victoria Sethabela, JP van der Schyff, Lucas
Mthenjane, Anver Alexander and Angela Gresham, who is based in New York. Making moves Mix FM turns 13 on the 13th On
13th February 2021, Johannesburg community radio station Mix 93.8 FM will be celebrating
their 13th birthday. Mix
93.8 FM prides themselves in giving back to the community and the celebration
of their 13th trip around the sun will be no different. For their birthday,
they will be inviting 13 of their awesome listeners to win their share of R100
000 in prizes including R13 000 in cash. The
team will be broadcasting live from Woodmead Value Mart, the home of genuine
brands and great value, for their birthday bash on Saturday, 13 February from
10H00 – 16H00. In conjunction with Woodmead Value Mart and Suzuki, they will be
choosing 13 listeners to join them on the day. All you have to do is tune into
Mix 93.8 FM, and whenever you hear party whistle, WhatsApp ‘Happy 13th
Birthday’ and your details to 084 822 0938. INMA launches Smart Data Initiative The
International News Media Association (INMA) has announced the launch of a
premium initiative for members and the news industry aimed at sharing insights
and best practices on creating value with data analytics for media companies
and incorporating a data-positive culture. The
Smart
Data Initiative is the third subject matter deep-dive endeavour by INMA
after its popular two-year-old Readers First Initiative and recently launched
Product Initiative. Heading
the Smart Data Initiative for INMA is Grzegorz (Greg) Piechota, the
association’s researcher-in-residence. Former senior researcher at Harvard and
Oxford universities, he started his career in journalism and led the newsroom
of Gazeta Wyborcza in Poland. The book he wrote with Professor Thales Teixeira,
Unlocking the Customer Value Chain, was recognised the Best Marketing Book of
2019 by Strategy+Business magazine. Piechota also heads INMA’s Readers First
Initiative. “The
Smart Data Initiative aspires to provide a blueprint for revolutionising
publishers’ value propositions, operating and monetisation models, while
maintaining their missions and values,” said Earl J. Wilkinson, executive
director and CEO of INMA. “We aim to transform the online news business and
make journalism sustainable by helping publishers analyse and act on data in
new and creative ways.” Adult Swim releases new
season of Momma Named Me Sherriff – and more! New seasons of Momma Named Me
Sheriff, Lazor Wulf and Ballmastrz: 9009are lined up
this February to give Adult Swim a refresh for 2021. The channel, exclusive to
Showmax in Sub-Saharan Africa, is not mincing words about shaking off the shackles
of 2020, they mean business. A double-feature drops on the 8th of February,
with the launch of Season 2 of Lazor
Wulf and Season 2 of Ballmastrz
9009, and, the Sheriff is back in town with Season 2 of the Mr. Pickles
spinoff: Momma Named Me Sheriff,
available to Africa as part of the international release on Monday, 15
February, just 24 hours after the US premiere. Diary World Newsmedia Network: Register now
for Subscription and Engagement benchmarking webinar In response
to the urgent growth of the news media industry’s subscription-first revenue
model, two industry pioneers are developing an unparalleled framework for the
next revenue frontier. Northwestern
University Medill School of Journalism, Media, Integrated Marketing
Communications and Mather Economics have formed a cross-industry benchmarking
partnership to aggregate and analyze U.S. news media companies’ user behavior
and subscription data. The ongoing
project, called the Medill Subscriber Engagement Index, has begun publisher
onboarding, and will launch in March 2021. Media companies will bear no cost
for participating in the revenue and engagement benchmarking project for the
first year. Learn more about the MSEI benchmarking project, and how your company can drive more engagement and revenue, during our webinar, open to all media participants. Register here for the webinar on Feb. 18 at 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.