Out of home might have been switched off during lockdown, but it remained relevant. The world’s oldest advertising medium showed its mettle with numerous Covid-19 campaigns, from #AloneTogether and #OurSecondChance to #StayHome. Now it’s back to business. During Covid-19, out of home (OOH) was used globally to relay vital messages at a time of great need. It also highlighted messages in celebration of essential workers across the world. These were placed on all OOH formats and were shared to social media and other online platforms, showing the power of OOH – ironically, in a time when our audiences had diminished. Our
reduction in bookings were specific to markets directly affected by lockdown
(i.e. events, property, vehicle sales and certain consumer goods). At the same
time, we experienced an uptake in work on long-term strategic branding. Another
effect of Covid-19 was that we have sped up entry into the Fourth Industrial
Revolution, fast-tracking critical areas such as programmatic buying. A key measure of consumers emerging from lockdown is trust in media channels, and OOH recorded the largest increase in consumer trust, from 15% to 57% (as per a UK study). According to WARC and the IPA, brands using OOH have a 20%+ increase in large business effects, versus brands not utilising the medium. The
recovery process has definitely started. Measured against pre-lockdown
baselines, road commuters are back to more than 90%, and mall visits are higher
than 70%. There are areas where audience measurements are higher than baseline,
for example grocery and pharmacy environments, and small regional shopping
centres. Residential movements are also 12% higher than baseline. There is a
mall in the Eastern Cape where 22% more shoppers were recorded than
pre-lockdown figures. We
are keeping a keen eye on areas where return of audiences is slower, for
example airports, the Gautrain, and niche markets such as gyms. The media
channels with a much longer recovery trajectory are cinema and activations. It
will be interesting to see how long-term pricing will be affected over the next
few months to a year. There could be a reduction of OOH stock in cluttered
areas, as well as ongoing price reductions. As with real estate, we are
experiencing a buyer’s market at the moment. Now is the time to invest in
strategic long-term holdings, as prime sites that have not been available for
long periods of time are back in the market. Following
the initial loss of audiences, OOH has proven to retain its reputation as the
“golden thread” that ensures effectiveness and reach of campaigns. Along with
that, it remains in a prime position for showing brand stature and presence. In
South Africa, true omnichannel buying is still not happening, as we are not on
a level playing field. The Outdoor Measurement Council has made great strides
in this regard, and has just released its fourth run of ROAD data (see update
on page 17). The planning and buying process of OOH is comparable to the
process of buying real estate, which means that individual knowledge and
understanding of this complex landscape will remain a necessity for any
effective campaigns. I
would like to echo the sentiments of Ari Buchalter, CEO of Intersection, and
emphasise these points: Programmatic
digital out of home (pDOOH) increases buying flexibility, and for the first
time, we are truly represented in the digital buying field with pDOOH now
possible in private marketplace (PMP). It is not yet available on real time bidding
(RTB), hence knowledge of the different PMP marketplaces is important. The
research of Les Binet and Peter Field shows the historic link between media
effectiveness and reach, with OOH being on par with TV on average daily reach,
outperforming radio and online. The billboard, traditional or digital, is most
certainly back. Margie Carr is the founder and managing director of In Touch Media[1] , the oldest specialist OOH advertising agency of its kind operating in South Africa and the rest of Africa.  In Touch Media provides tailored out of home solutions to its clients, supported by strategic, research-based insights from the inception to the completion of a campaign. References: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.