Media freedom in Sub-Saharan Africa is about to get a major boost after WAN-IFRA announced a new $1-million partnership with the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “WAN-IFRA will work
with print and digital media organisations in Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda,
South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe to improve the safety of
journalists and the security of newsrooms, increase media-led advocacy around press
freedom and gender-related issues, provide high-level business and editorial
management support, and offer financial assistance to strengthen public
interest reporting,” said Andrew Heslop,
executive director press freedom at WAN-IFRA in a post published on the
industry body’s website. WAN-IFRA would, over the next few
months, identify newsrooms and media partners to join in the new initiative,
Heslop said. The organisation would draw on its Women in News network,
its Media Freedom Committees in Africa, and a
growing membership community. Up to 25 organisations will benefit from the
resources and opportunities provided by this new programme. WAN-IFRA CEO, Vincent Peyrègne, said he
was delighted the partnership would be renewed.  “The last 12 months have exacerbated an
already difficult situation for media globally, and African newsrooms are no
exception. Many are struggling to successfully transition towards a digital
future, innovate their products to remain appealing to audiences, or strengthen
their business and editorial competencies under such harsh financial
conditions. Added to this, the safety of journalists and persistent threats to
press freedom make supporting colleagues across the continent an urgent
priority.” WAN-IFRA previously had a three-year
strategic engagement with the Ministry (2015-2018) and, as well as existing
programme engagements on the African continent through long-term collaborations
with the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and the
ground-breaking Women In News programme, as well as the Norwegian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. Heslop said over the course of the
three-year project, WAN-IFRA would work with media partners to: “It is an important year for media
freedom in Africa, with the 30th anniversary of UNESCO’s
pivotal Windhoek Declaration providing a necessary point of reflection to judge
successes and understand the work still required to ensure a strong,
independent press can flourish,” he said. “This timely new project strengthens WAN-IFRA’s engagement with media across Africa, giving us the opportunity to build on our support to long-term partners who have been on the front lines of defending press freedom for many years, but also crucially the chance to welcome exciting new media voices whose vision for Africa it is essential to include.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.