The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This
week’s BIG move: Business
Day TV welcomes Arabile Gumede as a presenter Financial journalist and broadcaster Arabile Gumede has
joined Business Day TV as host of a new weekly show, Africa Trade &
Business. The show aims to tell the story of the challenges and
opportunities across the continent in the wake of the signing of the
Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement. Gumede is a perfect fit for this show as
interrogating the world of money, finance and economics is his passion. He is a
respected and leading commentator, reporter, anchor and writer on radio, TV and
digital platforms across SA. He is also an advocate for financial literacy
and has garnered respect through working at prestigious companies such as CNBC
Africa, eNCA and Bloomberg News. Gumede has hosted numerous debates
featuring African heads of state such as Presidents Paul Kagame, Jacob Zuma and
Cyril Ramaphosa. He also co-hosted SA’s first and only morning business radio
show, Classic Business Breakfast and has produced and presented business
and market news on SABC News and Radio 702. The series is produced in association
with Absa Corporate and Investment Banking (Absa CIB), which serves a wide
market of industries involved in economic activities across the continent.
Business Day TV is on Channel 412 on DSTV. People moves Positive Dialogue appoints new account director following recent business gains Positive Dialogue, the strategic communications
partner within the DUKE Group, recently added industry heavy-heavyweight Nicola
Pykstra to their staff complement. Her new appointment comes as part of a
recruitment drive to assist with the agency’s recent new business haul,
following the addition of five new clients in Q1 of 2021. Pykstra is a communications specialist with
extensive industry expertise in public relations, communications, digital
marketing and brand management. With almost a decade of agency experience
behind her, she has worked on a diverse range of clients within the consumer,
corporate, government and non-government sectors. Commenting on the new appointment, Positive Dialogue Managing Director, Tracy Jones said, “We are thrilled to have Nicola join the business and have no doubt that her impressive skills and experience will have an extremely positive impact across all our new and existing client brands.” Siphiwe Mpye appointed editor of Business Day Wanted Arena Holdings has announced the appointment of respected journalist and magazine editor, Siphiwe Mpye, as editor of Business Day Wanted, South Africa’s leading award-winning luxury, lifestyle and culture magazine. The Wanted Editor position has been vacant for a few months. In Mpye, Wanted has an experienced writer and leader with over 22 years’ experience in the media landscape of South Africa. Mpye is the founding Editor of Bl!nk Magazine – Africa’s first independent men’s magazine and has also occupied a senior editorial role at GQ South Africa as an Associate Editor. He held a stint at Yfm 99.2 — a Gauteng based radio station that has been the epitome of youth since its inception in the 1990s — as the station’s spokesperson and as co-editor of YMag. The now defunct magazine became the “youth culture bible” in the early years of its existence. As an entrepreneur Mpye founded and managed his own digital media assets including notedman.com – a men’s style and culture platform. Just before the Covid-19 pandemic, he was running Imbawula, a live storytelling platform. Mpye’s work has been featured by all of the top weekend newspapers in South Africa including the Sunday Times, Mail & Guardian and City Press. Henley Africa’s Sol Plaatje scholarship winners announced Thabiso Thakali has won
this year’s Sol Plaatje scholarship to study his MBA at Henley Africa Business
School. The Sowetan executive editor was one of the two inaugural winners of
the scholarship, along with investigative journalist Pauli van Wyk, when they
were selected at the start of 2020. Thakali graduated last year
with his PG Dip in Management Practice, the traditional pipeline for the
executive MBA. He becomes the first double winner of the scholarship and the
first to progress through Henley Africa’s unique ladder of learning. Van Wyk is
in the process of completing her MBA. This year’s other Plaatje
scholar is seasoned journalist and writer Adam Oxford, who is currently head of
digital at the Mail & Guardian. Last year the scholarship was awarded to
broadcast journalist Macfarlane Moleli, who is best known to the South African
public through his work on Carte Blanche. Moleli is on track to complete his PG
Dip in Management Practice later this year. The Sol Plaatje scholarship
was launched by the business school to address the crisis in the South African
media industry, where legacy media houses, both print and broadcast, have been
devastated by the digital disruption. Business moves The DUKE Group launches
NUDE, a new market research Ppartnership with Instant Grass The DUKE Group
has partnered with Instant Grass founder, Greg Potterton, to launch NUDE –
Africa’s first dedicated ethnographic, market research agency. NUDE will focus
exclusively on ethnographic research that, unlike traditional Q & A
research, allows the client to step into the lives of actual people and watch
how they live, how they make choices and how products and services actually fit
into their daily routine, lifestyle and culture. This human-centric approach
gets to the root of why people do what they do, versus what they say
they do. Utilising the
latest video and mobile content creation platforms, NUDE will ensure that
projects are implemented quickly and efficiently with the aim of eliminating
the lengthy timing and budgetary constraints associated with traditional
research. Said Potterton,
“The industry seems to be infatuated with collecting more and more data,
however we seem to have forgotten that consumers are people and are by nature
irrational and unpredictable. We hope to take clients beyond the data points
and into the lives of real people. We want to shape, not measure opinions.” With the global
perspective gained from launching Instant Grass in both the North American and
Asia Pacific markets, Potterton realised that a South African partner was
needed to truly unlock the potential of the Sub Saharan African markets. Having
worked with DUKE C.E.O Wayne Naidoo for more than two decades, understanding
his approach to business and having seen the continued success of the DUKE
Group, the synergies between the two businesses were obvious. Tru-Cape turns to TikTok’s six million
plus local users for Kanzi apple campaign Following the success of
the 2020 campaign where Tru-Cape Fruit marketing used TikTok to engage
consumers with a campaign that was globally recognised and referenced for its
innovation in a CNN feature, the company again is turning to this
interactive medium. For Tru-Cape, the largest
exporter of South African apples and pears, and wholly owned by its growers at
Ceres Fruit Growers and Two-a-Day in Grabouw, this short-form animated
social-media channel helps reach a younger demographic who favour the
platform. Tru-Cape’s marketing director,
Conrad Fick, says that using TikTok, which reaches about six million people in
South Africa, and fits within the company’s strategy to engage younger users,
has proved successful. OFM backs Cheetahs for
Currie Cup 2021 Champions OFM has announced that
the Sound of Your Life has signed up to once again be the exclusive electronic
media sponsor of the Toyota Cheetahs. The radio station,
through its on-air and online platforms, will not only keep fans updated on the
blow-by-blow action throughout the Carling Currie Cup season, but also check in
regularly with the squad to track their progress and build ‘gees’ amongst
supporters so that although they’re playing to empty stadiums, they take their
home ground advantage on the road with them to the field. According to Nick
Efstathiou, CEO of Central Media Group, Cheetah rugby is the heart and soul of
rugby in Central South Africa. “Not to mention that it’s
everyone’s second-favourite team, but our number one! We’re looking forward
this Currie Cup season as the media sponsor, partner, supporter and sponsor of
the Cheetahs. I think the team has a fantastic opportunity to reclaim the Currie
Cup. They have a great squad, great backing and great leadership. We wish the
team well,” said Efstathiou. Says Kobus le Roux,
General Manager Commercial of the Toyota Cheetahs: “The Toyota Cheetahs are
proud to have taken hands yet again with the Central Media Group, and
specifically OFM. A proudly Central South African company like OFM is now yet
again the official media partner of the Toyota Cheetahs. The Toyota Cheetahs
thank OFM and Central Media Group for their unwavering support over the years and
look forward to making you proud this Currie Cup Season.” More exciting news is
that for some of these fixtures, OFM will stream full, live match commentary
online from veteran announcer Pieter Möller via its OFM Extra stream that can
be accessed on ofm.co.za, our free mobile and desktop apps as well as iono.fm. Free digital marketing
textbook reaches 14 000 downloads to date A new locally produced
university textbook is helping South African students learn about the
intricacies of the local marketing landscape, something expensive foreign
textbooks are normally not able to do. The work, called Marketing to the South African Consumer has
already been downloaded 14 000 times since its launch in February 2021. The
book, published by the UCT Liberty Institute
of Marketing, forms part of an initiative to help relieve financial
pressure on students by alleviating the cost of buying textbooks. Aimed at learners at
tertiary institutions, the book focuses on key marketing concepts but with a
distinctly local focus. The book was born out of a partnership between UCT and
Liberty, which is based on building South African marketing capability and
knowledge. “The book is written
to form part of the curricula of marketing in South Africa and is written by
local academics reflecting their own experiences in the field. Usually,
lecturers have to adapt overseas textbooks, but this book talks directly to the
local landscape. Crucially, it is freely accessible to anyone to download which
will help thousands of students, most of whom are under immense financial
pressure,” said Graham Easton, divisional executive for research and insights
at Liberty. “The idea here is to provide access to the particular nuances of
marketing in this country.” “To ensure the book is
accessible to everyone, it can be downloaded for free, demonstrating our
commitment at Liberty to foster a culture of learning, especially because
access to resources in education is a challenge,” says Nomaxabiso Matjila,
Head of CSI at Liberty. National Glass launches CSI initiative Nelson Mandela Bay creative
agency, Boomtown, has assisted National Glass in launching a corporate social
initiative specifically targeting the youth in Gqeberha’s Northern Areas. The safety of communities
in the Northern Areas is threatened daily by violent behaviour driven by
socio-economic factors, including a high unemployment rate. As the first step in its
CSI commitment, the family-owned and managed business head-quartered in
Gqeberha commissioned a statue to remember the children killed in the
cross-fire of firearm shoot-outs in the Northern Areas. Sculpted using the clothing
of 20 deceased children (donated by their parents), ‘The Last Child’ was
unveiled on Youth Day (16 June 2021). It was created by well-known
local artist, Duncan Stewart in collaboration with family, community members
and artist Zano Ntobela, and is encased in bullet-proof glass donated by
National Glass to symbolise the communities’ desire to protect their children. In addition to helping
bring The Last Child project to a successful conclusion on Youth Day, Boomtown
is assisting National Glass to raise awareness of this initiative using social
media and other channels. The project is supported by
the Mandela Bay Development Agency, MBDA. Netflix Mobile Plan launches Last year, Netflix
tested two Mobile Plan options to see if members would like them and following
the test, the streamer has now launchd one Mobile Plan at R49/$3.99 which will
sit alongside our other three Netflix plans; Basic, Standard & Premium. The mobile plan can be accessed on a tablet or a
smartphone. And allows one stream in SD (520p). Which means, at one time, only
one device can play it. Members who subscribe to the mobile plan will have the
same access to the entire Netflix catalogue available in Africa and users can
still have up to 5 different Profiles on the mobile plan. However, you can only
stream only on one device at a time. Non-profit FunDza scoops
R25 000 in MTN Donors Den Zilungile Zimela, head of
marketing and PR for non-profit organisation FunDza Literacy Trust, secured R25
000 for the educational NPO thanks to a successful pitch at the MTN Donors Den
session, held at the 14th Trialogue Business in Society Conference
on 24 June. Runner-up Mihandzu Learning received R15 000 for its project, which
focuses on developing key skills among high-school learners in vulnerable
communities. The Global Teachers Institute, which aims to develop high-quality
teachers and retain them within the profession, secured R10 000 to pursue its
goals.   Like its counterpart Dragons’ Den – a reality TV programme where entrepreneurs pitch business ideas to a panel of venture capitalists to secure funding – Donors Den sees three non-profit organisations (NPOs) pitch their projects to a panel of corporate donors, which then provides them with feedback on their pitching and fundraising skills. Making moves The Property Game to launch on The Home Channel Property investing has
taken off over the past few years as more people begin to understand and become
comfortable with what it entails. Hosted by TV personality and property
investor, Tebogo ‘Proverb’ Thekisho, The Property Game documents the gruelling,
yet very rewarding world of South African property investment. Novice real
estate investors who have been successful at getting onto the property ladder
share their stories and show you how they did it. These are regular people with
regular careers who wanted a piece of the property market for their own, and
have achieved that ambition! Shedding more light on
their ventures is our resident multi-million-rand property investment
entrepreneur, mentor and guru, Sylvia Milosevic. Sylvia will not only share her
valuable insights, she’ll also help us better understand, from an expert point
of view, each of these journeys and investment strategies. The premiere is Wednesday 4
August at 20:30 – Exclusive to The Home Channel, DStv Channel 176. MTV launches
African first hit reality show Ghosted: Love Gone Missing MTV
Africa has announced the
launch of an African first, hit US reality show Ghosted: Love Gone Missing gets a
local makeover. MTV Base Culture Squad TV personality, Shamiso Mosaka, and actor, Oros Mampofu, have bagged the
hosting gig for the show becoming the first hosts of the series in Africa. The
new MTV reality format will explore the phenomena of “Ghosting”, the practice
of ending a personal relationship with someone by suddenly, and without
explanation, withdrawing from all communication. In what is expected to be a
dramatic first season, viewers can catch the premiere exclusively on MTV Africa (DStv Channel 130) on
Monday 16 August at 21:30 CAT. OPPO recolourises iconic
tennis images to celebrate the return of Wimbledon Wimbledon’s official
smartphone partner, OPPO, celebrated the return of tennis through the launch of
new campaign, Courting the Colour. Using impeccable craftsmanship and advanced
technology, OPPO, in partnership with Getty Images, reawakened the colour of
old iconic photographs to retell the stories behind each, bringing the most
beautiful and poignant moments to life in a way never seen before. Inspired by
the belief that compassionate technology can help inspire vivid emotions, the
collection highlights powerful tennis stories that still reverberate in our
times today. Unveiled at an intimate workshop in London, Kevin Cho, Managing Director of OPPO UK, together with a special guest from The All England Lawn Tennis Club – Mick Desmond, Commercial & Media Director, and other distinguished panellists including tennis legend Greg Rusedski; the voice of tennis, Andrew Cotter; and magazine publisher and fashion consultant, Caroline Issa shared excitement for the return of the tournament. The panel unpacked themes within the collection, covering profound, pivotal moments in tennis history regarding race, gender and fashion. The workshop also exhibited the emotive collection, and a hands-on experience with OPPO’s flagship product of the year – Find X3 Pro. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.