Daily Sun freelance photographer, Muntu Sam Nkosi, passed away at his home on Saturday 10 July while media personality, radio presenter, and script writer Martha Makhela died on 5 July 2021, at her home in Polokwane, Limpopo. In a statement, the South African National Editors’ Forum sent its heartfelt condolences to both the Nkosi and Makhela families. Nkosi (58) died from Covid-related complications shortly after he had shared the news of his Covid-19 status in a tweet two weeks ago in his home in Tsakane, Ekurhuleni. His colleagues described him
as a jovial and passionate storyteller about township life and was well versed
in covering human interest stories around Ekurhuleni. He worked the streets,
informal settlements, and townships with much aplomb with our various
reporters. Daily Sun’s editor in-chief,
Mapula Nkosi, said the newsroom will be poorer without Nkosi who worked for the
paper for 14 years since 2002 and continued to work as a freelancer. “Muntu was one of the most
humble and soft-spoken colleagues in the newsroom. His eyes would always light
up and he would start engaging jovially when he had to go out in the field to
tell stories. We are still in shock about his passing. We would like to extend
our deepest condolences to his family.” Stephens Molobi, who worked
very closely with Muntu, said: “I was lost for words when I heard of his
passing. We were a super tag team in Ekurhuleni.  He was full of life and always made work seem
easy with his strong contacts.” Ntebatse Masipa, another
reporter who worked closely with Muntu, said she will miss debating story
angles with him. “I loved working with him.” Martha Makhela Makhela began her career as
a receptionist in Venda, became a teacher at School of Tomorrow in Shayandima
and then became an award-winning presenter at the SABC’s Phala-Phala FM (then
Radio Venda) in 1994 where she worked for 15 years. Her friends described her as
a trailblazer in the industry, inspiring others to thrive in their lives. She
was responsible for the creation of several award-winning shows such as Nne na
Vhone, Ndevhe Tsini and Learners Support. She left the station in 2010 to
empower and unearth talent at various community radio stations in the district. She was considered a mother
to many and a beloved member of the community. She is survived by four children
and three grandchildren. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.