Future-proofing currency research in line with the changing landscape became paramount in 2020, a year that required us to innovate and operate outside of our comfort zones. We were presented with myriad challenges that could have made progress impossible had we not chosen to seek out opportunity in the face of adversity. Covid-19 and the accompanying lockdown laws and regulations, including media and advertising, impacted all sectors. Market research, under normal circumstances,
is an area that is continually under scrutiny due to its importance in
strategic decision-making. It is, for all intents and purposes, an essential
service in the media and advertising industry. Currency research is arguably the most
scrutinised due to its impact on revenue streams for broadcasters and
advertisers alike. Therefore, a core requirement of this research is accuracy,
which in turn requires that it be able to keep up with and adapt to changing
circumstances. Future-proofing our currency research in line with the changing
landscape therefore became paramount in 2020. As the pandemic hit and level 5 lockdown
ensued there was no doubt that we would see fluctuations in audience data for
both TV and radio – a huge disruptor being the changes to people’s daily
routines and habits. People were no longer commuting to and from work; working
hours were altered by home schooling, family life, and restrictions on
movement, social interactions and the like. The shifts in routines and habits
led to shifts in media consumption: mainly an increase in listening and
viewing. Both the television and radio currencies were
impacted as the makeup of the underlying research methodologies involved some
form of critical face-to-face interaction, namely interviewing respondents for
the Radio Audience Measurement Survey (RAMS) and maintaining the inner workings
of the panel for Television Audience Measurement Survey (TAMS). We were therefore faced with an urgent need to
replace face-to-face methodologies with virtual methodologies for both RAMS and
TAMS. While the TAMS panel remained stable
and within acceptable levels of health, RAMS did not stand up well to the
lockdown landscape as all fieldwork ceased. After careful consideration by
all relevant stakeholders, the decision was made to run a fully comprehensive
request for proposal. This allowed suppliers in the market to come forward with
best practice proposals that would safeguard and future-proof the study. This year we are moving from a radio
measurement paradigm to an audio measurement model to ensure we capture the
full spectrum of audio, which includes linear and non-linear radio consumption
as well as channels such as podcasting. In 2020, in terms of television, we saw a
steady increase in online streaming and use of digital. Measurement of online
viewing habits is a core focus for the Broadcast Research Council (BRC) in
2021. A monumental win in 2020 came in the form of
Fusion 2020, which answered the call of the media industry to bring a merged
dataset to the market, including television data, products and brands, and
insights into online behaviour. In partnership with the Publisher Research
Council and Nielsen, the BRC was able to ensure these hitherto unseen data
points were incorporated into TAMS. In 2021 we will focus on the next possible
iteration and investigate the possibility of incorporating RAMS data into
Fusion. Gary Whitaker is CEO of the Broadcast Research Council of South Africa. He has over 17 years’ experience in the fields of market research, media strategy, and traditional and digital marketing. He has held positions at AC Nielsen, Millward Brown, Mindshare, Nestlé S.A., MTN and Publicis Media. Gary’s core focus is delivering accurate data to enable the deep and meaningful consumer insights that form the basis for sound strategies. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.