The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Corporate bursaries opening doors to a brighter future
for SA Youth Despite the economic
hardships presented by Covid-19 restrictions, constant lockdowns and South
Africa’s high unemployment rate, the private sector is stepping in to ensure
young South Africans are equipped with the skills, digital expertise, and
progressive mindsets that will allow them to achieve a solid qualification for
better employment opportunities and a decent future. Through the Red &
Yellow Bursary Programme, 74 talented and promising South African youths have
been awarded bursaries to further their tertiary education at the Red & Yellow
Creative School of Business. Bursaries to the value of
R7.5 million have been awarded, of which 50% have been sponsored by corporate
brand partnerships with leading companies, such as Adidas, leading to the
creation of employment opportunities for talented South African youths. Red & Yellow’s bursary
students are studying a range of programmes, including the school’s highly
regarded BCom in Marketing, BA in Visual Communications, and Advanced Diploma
in Marketing & Advertising Communications. “The bursary has given me
an opportunity to focus on my studies as I don’t have to worry about finances
and my living allowances,” said Anganathi Beyile, one of the BCom in Marketing
bursary students. “Once I am done with my degree, I would like to start my own
agency to showcase creative talent and to tell people’s stories. My ultimate
goal is to start a non-profit organisation with my mother”. Meghan Slater, head of
corporate sales, said financial aid for students is pivotal as it enables them to transcend
merely surviving in an incredibly difficult economy and to actively pursue
their dreams. “Through Red & Yellow’s
Bursary Programme, corporates can support the development of the local business
landscape and increase employment opportunities by equipping bright young South
Africans with the necessary skills to become the leaders of tomorrow,” she
said. To learn more about
the Red & Yellow Bursary Programme, visit their bursaries pageor email corporatetraining@redandyellow.co.za. People moves Sanef mourns death of Sechaba ka Nkosi Veteran
journalist, Sechaba ka Nkosi, was found dead in his home on Wednesday, 14 July
2021. Sechaba, who
was the deputy editor of Business Report, cut his journalistic teeth in the
anti-apartheid alternative press before joining the SABC as a labour reporter
in the early 1990s. He also had a stint with the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, where he was one of the trade union federation’s communicators.
He would then go on to work for several major newspapers, including the Sunday
Times and Business Report in reporting and management capacities. His friend,
Mondli Makhanya, City Press’ editor-in-chief, said: “Sechaba will be missed for
his big heart, his massive laughter and his stubborn argumentative nature when
it came to deep political debates. As the media fraternity, we will miss an
important voice that enriched the South African conversation. It is a pity he
passed on before his beloved Kaizer Chiefs was to take part in the final of the
CAF African Champions League.” Mary Papayya,
Sanef’s media freedom committee chairperson, described him as a brilliant
writer and thinker. “He had a sharp mind and acute political insights and where
the environment allowed it, he was masterful in his analysis. He wore many hats
during his more than three decades of contribution to journalism – from
political reporter, business reporter through to business editor. His loss will
be deeply felt.” Former Constitutional Court Justice Johan Froneman appointed chairperson
of BCCSA appointment and appeals panels The National Association of
Broadcasters (NAB) and the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of SA (BCCSA) have
appointed retired Constitutional Court judge, Justice Johan Froneman, as chairperson
of the BCCSA’s appointment and appeals panels. The appointment of Justice
Froneman was effective as of 9 July 2021, and is in line with amendments that
have been made to the BCCSA’s founding documents. These amendments are aimed at
strengthening governance and accountability and to provide for the chairperson
of the appointment panel to also chair appeal processes. Justice Froneman’s illustrious
26-year judicial career included 11 years’ service on the Constitutional Court
and was distinguished by his commitment to driving social justice through his
work as a pioneer in South Africa’s constitutional jurisprudence. African Bank appoints
Sbusiso Kumalo as chief marketing officer Seasoned marketing executive,
Sbusiso Kumalo, will take over the reigns as African Bank’s Chief Marketing
Officer and member of the Executive Committee as of 1 August 2021. Kumalo has over 20 years
of experience, mainly in financial services. His most recent appointment was at
Capitec in 2007 as brand manager and played an instrumental role in the bank’s
repositioning into full retail banking. He was promoted to head of brand marketing
in 2016 and spearheaded the expansion of the brand and marketing strategy to a
broader market segment. Kumalo holds a Master of
Business Administration from the University of Cape Town Graduate School of
Business and a Senior Leadership Programme from the Gordon Institute of
Business Science. DUKE Advertising appoints
new client service director Estilee du Plessis has been appointed as client
service director at DUKE Advertising. No stranger to the industry, Du Plessis
spent over 11 years’ honing her skills at the likes of M&C Saatchi Abel, J.
Walter Thompson, Black River FC and Abnormal Group. Former clients have
included numerous iconic South African brands such as Five Roses, Frisco,
Nedbank, DStv, Nestlé, Nando’s and SAB. Adding to her depth of expertise and
valuable contribution to the industry is the fact that she considers herself “a
creative that functions as a suit.” An honours degree in both fine art as well
as brand communications and strategy gives her the unique ability to apply a
creative mindset to solving brand and business challenges. She joins DUKE under
the leadership of managing director, Aileen Sauerman. ACA announces
incoming board of directors for 2021/2022 fiscal The new board of directors of
the Association for Communication and Advertising (ACA) for the 2021/2022
fiscal was announced at the association’s 74th Annual General
Meeting held on Wednesday 30 June 2021. The incoming Board is: 22 media innovators
selected for the second GNI Innovation Challenge in Africa, the Middle East,
and Turkey Google has announced
the names  of 22 media innovators set  to receive $2.1 million in
funding through the second Google News Initiative (GNI) Innovation Challenge
for  Africa, the Middle East, and Turkey. A total of 329
established publishers, online-only players, news startups, publisher consortia
and local industry associations applied from 35 countries across the regions
showing the diversity and the appetite for innovation of the news ecosystem. A
rigorous review process, a round of interviews and a jury selection process
followed, for the final selection of successful recipients. “The vibrancy of the
markets in the 14 countries, projects were selected from, could clearly be seen
in the vast range of news players, topics and technologies considered,” said
Ludovic Blecher, head of innovation at Google News
Initiative. In South Africa,
Olduvai Pty., an online-only publisher, developed Scrolla.Africa,
a data-light platform that makes news available to millions of people in
southern Africa, who would otherwise be unable to afford data costs. The applicants’
innovations addressed issues ranging from audience development to virtual
reality storytelling and recipients were able to clearly demonstrate their
commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). The full list of the
selected projects for the 2021 GNI Innovation Challenge can be found on
the  GNI website. New Board announced for AAXO This
year’s AAXO AGM, on 30 June 2021, was opened to the broader industry of
associate members and organiser members. All stakeholders attending had the
opportunity to review the work AAXO has been intensely engaged in this past
year. The team revisited the multiple hybrid events, webinars, and campaigns
that the Association has initiated or participated in and proposed strategies
to take the Association forward in a climate of uncertainty. Nominations
for the new AAXO Board began at the end of May 2021 with online voting from 17-
23 June, concluding in time for the announcement to be made at the AGM. The election
brought a few changes to the 2020/2021 Board. Projeni Pather from Exposure
Marketing was re-elected as chairperson together with Devi Paulsen from DMG
Events as vice-chairperson.  Mark
Anderson of Specialised Exhibitions remains as treasurer and Chantelle Hingston
of Clarion Events as director. AAXO welcomed new board members Adele Hartdegen of Dogan Exhibitions and Events, Tiisetso Tau of Synergy Business Events and Charles Wilson, CEO of Gallagher Convention Centre V&A Waterfront
announces Shirley Zinn as new board chairperson The V&A Waterfront,
one of the country’s most successful public-private partnerships as well as one
of the most visited destinations in Africa has appointed Dr Shirley Zinn as
independent chairperson of its board of directors. The V&A Waterfront is
jointly owned by the Government Employees Pension Fund (represented by Public
Investment Corporation SOC Ltd) and Growthpoint Properties Limited. Dr Zinn
will chair the board consisting of Norbert Sasse (Growthpoint), Francois
Marais (Growthpoint), Thulisa Mpuntshe (PIC) Amogelang Mocumi (PIC), Estienne
de Klerk (Growthpoint) and Dr Renosi Mokate (GEPF). adidas Originals partners
with South African Gamer on the latest ZX 2K BOOST adidas has partnered with
competitive PC gamer Julia Robson and the DNMK Esports team to bring its Feel
the ZXience iniative to life locally. Speaking on the adidas collaboration and
the role the digital world plays in today’s world, Robson and ThendoPlays said,
“adidas has set a precedence for brands supporting and embracing the future,
and we are so proud to be part of the ZX campaign. The bright colours, reflective
highlights and gradient glow of this new colourway drew me to it says Julia.
Add a dark room and a computer and my world is complete! Gamers are hooked on
the glow of technology as it represents the warmth and comfort we receive from
socialising and engaging within our ever-active online realms. The communities
we are part of digitally give us a sense of solace from the unpredictable and
difficult times we are experiencing during this global pandemic”. Project Management
Institute announces 2021 Future 50 List Project Management
Institute (PMI) announced its second annual Future 50 list, which features 50
rising leaders using bold and innovative thinking to transform the world
through notable projects. The 50 standout project
leaders, highlighted in a new digital experience on PMI.org and a special issue
of PMI Network® magazine, represent a new generation of fearless, young
innovators who drive transformation and create positive social impact across
the globe. Honourees include ground-breaking achievements from people across
many industries and countries, South Africa was represented by project
editor/publisher from UNISA Press Tshegofatso Sehlodimela,  Ayanda More,
founder and CEO of Apara Global, and Innocentia Mahlangu for tackling tough
infrastructure projects with an eye toward social and economic change. To see the complete list
of honourees and what drives this next generation of talent, visit PMI.org/Future50. Business moves HUAWEI
and Wavemaker launch new, innovative digital advertising platform Multinational
technology company HUAWEI has partnered with Wavemaker South Africa to roll out
HUAWEI Ads. HUAWEI’s new advertising platform is disrupting a space that has
seen little disruption in recent years, with monoliths largely dominating
unchallenged. However,
now, an alternative – and enhanced – approach to advertising is here. HUAWEI
Ads is equipped with everything necessary to ensure that advertising reaches
the right people at precisely the right time. Advertisements are selectively
delivered to Huawei’s 700 million monthly active users in over 220 global
markets with seamless precision. They are cost effective and can easily be
adjusted to extract the most value out of any advertising budget. “When
we heard about HUAWEI Ads, we knew that it was something we wanted to be
involved in,” said Shaun Frazao, head of digital and content at Wavemaker, “And
today, we’re delighted to be the first media agency in South Africa to put
HUAWEI Ads to use. Being able to execute this new platform here feels nothing
short of revolutionary.” Adam
Xiao, managing director of Huawei Mobile Services in the Middle East and Africa,
said Wavemaker was an obvious choice. “We love the synergy in our approaches to
tackling advertising differently and believe that HUAWEI Ads will live up to
its great potential in Wavemaker’s hands.” Isikhova Media awarded publishing rights to South African Builder
magazine Independent publisher Isikhova Media is thrilled to announce it has been
awarded the publishing rights to publish South
Africa Builder magazine, the official journal for Master Builders South Africa
(MBSA). The
magazine is distributed to all the members of Master Builders Associations (MBA)
in SA, as well as the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), which includes
architects, structural engineers, quantity surveyors, small, medium and large
contractors, sub-contractors and builders’ merchants. Content includes latest
news in the building and construction industry as well as topical discussion on
industry projects, products, and personalities. “Isikhova
Media is working closely with the MBSA to position the publication – which
celebrates its centenary in 2023 – to engage more proactively than ever with
our membership,” said Roy Mnisi, Executive Director, MBSA. “The new-look SA
Builder – designed by Isikhova – boasts a modern, contemporary and refreshed
design which factors in both our online and print readerships while content has
been overhauled under the exciting editorship of Raymond Campling.” The
publication is paralleled by a strong online presence on the www.sabuilder.co.za website, Facebook and other digital platforms. Digitas Liquorice wins the sought-after
HAVAL & Great Wall Motors South African account Digitas Liquorice
has been appointed as the agency responsible for the creation of the new
digital home of HAVAL & GWM in South Africa. This announcement follows an
intense three-stage pitch process. Digitas Liquorice
MD Carla Worth said, “It is with great pride that we announce this win.
The GWM team were looking for the right strategic partner and innovative fit
for the brand.  Being the connected experience agency, our skillset sits
at the intersection of data, creativity and technology; fuelling meaningful
connections between brands and people.  Since our proposal placed a strong
emphasis on intuitive UI and technical capability, our solution was compelling
and resonated with the GWM team’s creative and business ambition.” InSites Consulting reports 10% year-on-year
growth Global
consumer insights agency InSites Consulting has announced it will close its
fiscal year 2020-2021 with a 10% revenue growth, adding up to €66 million
worldwide. While
equally strong growth rates were noted across EMEA, APAC and the US, the
company realized a substantial higher growth rate of 16% among global clients
versus domestic clients. “Our core solution, online insight
communities, facilitated through our own proprietary Square platform, is
particularly suited to the growing needs of clients to stay close to consumers
with the pandemic having created big shifts in consumer behavior. As consumer
experts with a versatile and fully digital research toolbox at hand, we are in
a strong position to service our clients with increasingly deep consumer
understanding. Our success among global brands has been further reinforced by
cultivating client relationships from every corner of the world,” said Heather Tluczek, Managing Director
South Africa at InSites Consulting. YouTube Shorts arrives
in South Africa YouTube hasannounced
the arrival, in South Africa, of the beta version of YouTube Shorts, the
company’s new short-form video experience to create short, catchy videos from
mobile phones. First announced in September 2020, YouTube has since
expanded Shorts to 26 countries and will now be available across more than 100
countries around the world where YouTube is available. While short-form videos
were already viewable on the platform, users in South Africa will be able to
access Shorts’ creation tools for the first time, which include a
multi-segment camera to string multiple video clips together, the ability to
record with music, control speed settings, and more. “We want to make it
easy and fun to create Shorts” said Todd Sherman, Global Product Manager for
YouTube Shorts. “As we continue to build Shorts alongside our creators and
artists, we’ll be adding more features for users to try.” When it comes to music,
artists and creators will have a large library of songs to use in their Shorts
from over 250 labels and publishers around the world, including Universal Music
Group’s labels and publishing companies, Sony Music Entertainment and Sony
Music Publishing, Warner Music Group and Warner Chappell Music, Believe,
Merlin, Because Music, Beggars and, Kobalt. IdeateLabs bags the 360⁰
marketing mandate for Planet Marathi IdeateLabs, the
independent full-service agency, has won the 360⁰ marketing mandate for
Planet Marathi OTT in a multi-agency pitch. The company will be
responsible for the launch of India’s first Marathi OTT channel and manage the
brand’s end-to-end marketing duties, including creative communication, content
marketing, and media strategy, planning and buying. Planet Marathi was
established in 2017 and is well-known for its rich content on knowledge and
entertainment, created in an exclusive, unique and contemporary manner. Swiftmile selects
Broadsign OOH technology to deliver global programmatic micromobility ad network Swiftmile, the
pioneer in micromobility charging infrastructure and technology, announced
today that it has enlisted Broadsign, developer of the leading
out-of-home (OOH) marketing platform, as the technology partner for its new
global micromobility advertising network. Swiftmile is working with
the public sector, real-estate developers, and mobility operators to roll out
charging hubs for micromobility vehicles like e-bikes and e-scooters across the
globe. Media buyers looking to reach audiences on-the-go can now access
Swiftmile’s signage inventory via more than 30 omni-channel and OOH specialty
demand-side-platforms (DSPs) integrated with Broadsign’s programmatic
supply-side-platform (SSP) for OOH, Broadsign Reach. Advertisers and media
buying agencies can now easily harness Swiftmile’s inventory and use real-time
triggers such as weather, traffic, transit delays or other data to reach
audiences with contextually relevant and hyperlocal messages as they move
throughout their days. All programmatic transactions across the network are
managed by Broadsign Reach, with the complete stack of Broadsign OOH marketing
solutions also helping to streamline ad sales and network management. In
addition to supporting programmatic advertising, Swiftmile’s network of
displays will also share transit information and public service announcements,
as well as promotions from local businesses in the vicinity. Making moves Lerato Agency creates opportunities for
young people within one year of its existence Creating employment and learnership opportunities for
young people in our industry has been one of the Lerato Agency’s greatest
highlights since Lerato Agency opened its doors one year ago. “Our company was established at a time when
many other businesses in our space were shutting down. The fact that we have
been able to make it this far speaks to the resilient and bold character of our
team. And here we are again celebrating this milestone during another stringent
lockdown,but this does not stop us from moving forward,” said Lerato CEO,
Pat Mahlangu. Despite the challenges associated with starting a new business we have been able to employ a full-time team and bring in two young people who were selected through a fellowship programme facilitated by our sister company, Pat on Brands (POB). The vision is to build a formidable team of digital
marketing experts and creatives while supporting youth development. This year
Lerato Agency welcomed Sethabile Hlengwa, 25, who is about to complete her
studies at Boston Media House. Nozipho Claudette Nhlengethwa views working with the team
as a great platform to explore and grow as a creative. “This opportunity will give me a great head start for my career in the
creative industry and build my portfolio as a designer. What I have learnt so
far working with Team Lerato is that I need to be consistent and disciplined in
my craft,” said Nozipho. The company has worked on campaigns for brands like SAMRO,
Brand Africa, SA Jewelry Week and Lanseria Smart City among others. We were
also one of 20 companies to win media space valued at R175 000 from Tractor
Outdoor as part of their 20in21 SME marketing Initiative. SANEF launches
local elections training and reporting portal for journalists The South African National Editors’ Forum
will assist journalists with online training and reporting resources in the
run-up to the local elections, scheduled for 27 October this year. The Sanef 2021 municipal elections portal, provides newsrooms
with information that they can use in planning their election coverage,
training manuals, a local government data dashboard and other reporting tools. The portal builds on the online
resources for the national and provincial elections in 2019, when Sanef and
partners provided election training to hundreds of journalists around the
country, backed up by an online election handbook and election updates. The expanded 2021 portal features
newsroom manuals and training materials for a series of local government and
election coverage webinars to be held from end July on topics which will
include how municipal elections work, the role of the media during elections,
electoral disinformation, the safety of journalists on- and offline and
municipal finances. A new addition to the election portal
is a data dashboard which provides journalists with detailed information on
municipal demographics and finances, to assist them when they do stories on
municipal performance and service delivery in the run-up to the elections. Additional electoral datasets will be
added to the dashboard when released by the IEC and will include information on
registration levels for each municipality as well as the parties and candidates
contesting ward and proportional representation seats. FWA Connect takes centre
stage as FAME industry powerhouse The power of RX globally
has enabled FAME Week Africa to rapidly respond and to assist their clients in
future-proofing their businesses and create new ways to engage with creatives,
producers, musicians, animators, digital wizards and more. In partnership with the
Host City of Cape Town, RX Africa is raising the curtain with the launch of FWA Connect, a virtual hub starring the
Pan-African market with a focus on animation, film, arts, media and entertainment
industries. FWA Connect is the
digital arm of FAME Week Africa. Launching in September 2021, FAME Week Africa
is set to become the continent’s unrivalled cornerstone of business
development, connecting industry professionals and creatives, transforming
three days of exchange and networking, meetings, screenings and conferences,
into lasting business. “FWA Connect offers
curated content, industry news and insights, and a place where experts on a variety
of industry-related will host webinars for the world. It will also offer
back-stage passes into the lives of the people who make up this vibrant
creative industry,” said Martin Hiller, creative + content director for FAME
Week Africa. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.