What is happening in the television space right now is reminiscent of those first crazy years when the onset of digital publishing and advertising fractured the print sector. New
and shiny technologies turned the age-old business upside down. Massive
investment was required to keep pace, while revenues took a hit as advertising
moved online – and cost much less. New skills were needed across the board. And
then there was the question of measurement, something that still preoccupies
the publishing sector, although bodies such as the Publisher Research Council
of South Africa and the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa have
made huge strides in this field. Cut
to 2021 and the world of television. Streaming and over the top services have
seen significant increases in audiences (not least due to the pandemic), while
globally linear television has taken a knock. And, like the print sector,
advertising has taken a hit, as most streamers don’t offer traditional
advertising.  Hence, advertising funded
programming is increasing, as is integration and product placement within
exclusively streamed shows, offering creative and innovative means to increase
revenues. Of
course, with the SABC servicing millions of South Africans, linear television
is far from over here. But with digital terrestrial television finally becoming
a reality, this too will change the SABCs current reality. As
with print media a couple of decades ago, the upturned television industry has
also to measure audiences and engagement to deliver return on investment to
advertisers. With viewers in a single household watching different shows on
different streamers or on television, and using multiple ‘screens’ or devices
to do so presents challenges. South Africans, for example, tend to use mobile
devices to watch streaming content. We’re a mobile nation, compared to the US
or UK where television sets or laptops are used more often than smartphones. Nielsen,
the global information, data and market measurement firm, has already launched
NielsenONE, which it describes as a “single, cross-media
currency, so you’re able to buy and sell across linear and digital platforms
seamlessly”. The good news is South Africa is not far behind, as Nielsen
Media’s Terry Murphy and the BRC’s Gary Whitaker explain in our streaming
update. We’ve also explored the world of
telenovelas, and commercial integration into these hugely popular shows,
highlighted by the number of SAFTA awards the genre received recently. We’ve
also asked top media owner sales heads to share how they’re managing to work in
an almost virtual world. Our story on how a special sports influencer agency is
helping sports stars monetise their digital presence, how telcos can help
brands tap into mobile advertising. We’ve taken a look into why transparency in
digital advertising across Africa is so important by an expert in the field,
and given huge insights into the effectiveness and creativity of television
advertising in South Africa. The Media. Got to love it. Click on the image to read the magazine. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.