Week two of Radio Days Africa 2021 kicked off in style with two sessions that had panelists buzzing to share their insights and ideas, and attendees lighting up the chat box with their questions and feedback. The morning session saw Neil Johnson at the helm of a gripping discussion under the umbrella topic of Music Scheduling in the Streaming Era. It featured Kenzy Mohapi (music compiler at Jacaranda FM), Sot Moldovanos (music editor for Africa at Deezer), Zanda Mthembu (music compiler at Ukhozi FM) and Manqoba Khubeka (general manager of licensing for SAMRO). The afternoon session broke with conference convention, as Claire Mawisa moderated an epicspeed brainstorming session titled 60 Ideas in 60 Minutes. The conversation brought about multiple fresh ideas across the different segments of broadcasting, thanks to input from from Zane Derbyshire (programme manager at East Coast Radio), Gary Stroebel (CEO at Future Media Namibia), Paulo Dias (head of creative at Ultimate Media) & Ravi Naidoo (chief creative officer at Primedia). Excited readers should note that all of these ideas will be shared in the second half of this article. That morning, when Johnson asked one of two female music compilers on the panel about what a typical working day in the role looked like, Mthembu was first to offer a detailed account. She explained that it is generally “all about loading music and making sure the schedule for the day ahead is in order”. She spoke about a monumental backlog of 40 000 music submissions on their system; a load that hasn’t been made easy to tackle thanks to Section 189 procedures at the SABC, where remaining employees have had to absorb additional responsibilities from colleagues that were given their marching orders. Mohapi’s
day is somewhat similar to Mthembu’s. “The ‘sexy’ stuff that you hear on the
radio is an important outcome,” she began. “But the day-to-day grind involves a
lot of admin”. According to her it’s worth the trouble, as 60 to 80% of what a
listener hears on radio is the actual music. “[For this reason], it’s very
important in terms of the overall strategy of any station”, she added. Formerly a compiler for commercial radio but now working for streaming platform Deezer, Moldovanos recognised the value of music and spoke about the similarities between radio and streaming. “The big difference lies in that with streaming, you have so much more music to go through,” he said. This is because local editors typically look after all genres of music. Keeping the earlier mentioned music submissions backlog in mind, surely the load is significantly lighter for digital streaming platform curators? Not quite, as a staggering 80 000 new songs are added to these services every day. “Overall, we’re now looking at 73 million songs available on Deezer,” Moldovanos added “So there is a lot to choose from”. With so many songs available, how do local songwriters get paid royalties for streams and public broadcasts? Khubeka is in charge of this and licensing in general at SAMRO, so he could shed some light on the process. He mentioned that different tariffs are assigned based on how music enhances the experience of a person in a particular setting. “In a restaurant, music enhances your experience but it isn’t the main reason you are there,” he said. “So we use the audible area (square metres) — or the number of people exposed — to determine tariffs”. This is different for a music venue where commercial revenue is generated as a result of the music itself. The latter stages of the session saw the panel discussing the huge gains streaming music is making across the continent. Increased exposure, better access to reliable internet and lower data costs have truly started to change the game. “Everyone wants a piece of Africa,” Moldovanos told the group. “The music is busy crossing borders, and it’s pretty exciting”. Not wanting to be overly enthusiastic on a cold winter morning in South Africa, or just aware that he was talking to a room full of radio enthusiasts, he backpedalled gently. “It’s slowly happening,” he added. “But it’s definitely happening”. If you
blinked you may have missed the jam-packed afternoon session, which saw a
renowned group of panelists from different corners of the industry
brainstorming 60 ideas in 60 minutes. As promised, here is the full list, in
all its glory: Take a minute to let those sink in, and see you soon for another round of action from Radio Days Africa 2021. Conrad Schwellnus is a freelance writer specialising in content, ghost and fiction projects. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.