The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Global leader, SHAREit, sets its sights firmly on
Africa, appoints Chanel Hardman as country director SHAREit Group, the global
internet technology company that has built numerous popular tools and digital
entertainment content applications, have confirmed Chanel Hardman’s appointment
as the new country director for Africa. The role is a jointly appointed role by
SHAREit and PerformDM and involves working to manage sales operations, develop
strategic solutions and work alongside the PerformDM’ team to drive growth on
the continent. SHAREit, the world’s most
extensive file-sharing, gaming and content streaming application, is paying
significant attention to the continent, recently ranked as the No.2
fastest-growing media publisher in Africa in the AppsFlyer’s latest Performance
Index. In South Africa, the app boasts around 20m monthly active users (one in
three smartphone users). With a proven track record
of meeting sales targets, influencing key stakeholders, and maintaining
excellent relationships with agencies and partners, Hardman honed her skills as
a former business development manager of the Year winner while at 24.com, Africa’s
largest digital publisher, spending a few years growing digital revenue as the
digital team lead in Johannesburg at Media24, focusing on their most extensive
portfolio before moving to The Space Station, 24.com‘s sales arm. From there she moved to
Tencent Africa as Head of Sales focusing on creating and selling advertising
opportunities on the JOOX music streaming platform. “I am amazed by the popularity of this brand in Africa,” said Hardman. “As the access to smart devices and internet access increases, and the desire for popular content and mobile games continues to trend upwards, we are optimally positioned to cater for the entertainment needs of the data conscious consumer.” People moves Change at the editorial
helm for NAG NAG publishers has
announced Regardt van der Berg will be stepping in as editorial lead
for New Age Gamer
(NAG) Magazine. Van der Berg is an established content creator and
gaming authority in his own right and brings a wealth of creativity and
expertise to South Africa’s premier gaming and esports, sci-tech, entertainment
and pop culture publication. Len Nery, publisher and
managing director of Hashtag Full Circle, the parent company of NAG Magazine said,
“Change at the editorial helm of a media company is never an easy transition to
make, especially during these trying times we are all facing. But with Regardt
in the NAG Editor’s chair, calm has been restored at the office. He brings with
him years of experience in creating video and copy content focused on new
technology, keenly consumed by NAG readers. So, I do believe he is a perfect
fit and, as a result, look to the future with ardour.” Van der Berg added, “NAG
has always been my second home, and I feel honoured to now be in the driving
seat for the next chapter of South Africa’s longest-running gaming media house.
These are big shoes to fill, but I’ve got the help and support of the
incredible team behind the scenes that do all the real hard work. As I re-join
NAG in an official capacity, I can’t help but feel like the proverbial band is
coming back together.” Eclipse Communications primed for strategic wins with new creative director Eclipse Communications has
appointed Fareez Joulay as its creative director. Joulay’s mandate will be to
lead the agency’s creative business growth, across its corporate centre of
excellence, arts and entertainment and consumer and lifestyle business units. Joulay has been with the
agency since 2018, primarily focused on social media strategy creation, which
resulted in securing the Netflix SA account and directing the digital
discipline for well over two years. Under his leadership, the fledgling digital
stream grew to include the likes of BHBW, MBA, GVK-Siya Zama Construction and
many others. Today, this stream accounts for over 10% of the agency’s revenue.
Joulay has also been instrumental in the new business ideation process,
resulting in the recent successful conversion of Garena, Edward Snell and DiDi. He started his career in
sales and marketing at MTN, later securing an internship at MediaCom where he
remained for four years, as a media strategist. He subsequently joined MEC
Notabene, where he led strategy for the spirits portfolio, pushing hard to
secure Smirnoff® to the global number one spot in volume vodka brand category,
at that time. Joulay then joined JWT SA as an integration strategist, and
developed the unique skill of bridging media and communications strategies to
craft the most performative and creative campaign models. East Coast Gold welcomes Guy McDonald
to Weekend Breakfast East Coast Gold, the
classic hits digital station, has added a new voice to its line-up. Guy
McDonald, who is no stranger to the radio industry and a multiple Radio Awards
winner, will be firing up the airwaves on weekends from 6 to 10 AM. Born in KwaZulu-Natal but
residing in Cape Town, McDonald is a well-known voice on the Cape airwaves,
sure to bring listeners his adventurous nature coupled with the classic hits
from the ‘60s, ‘70s, and ‘80s. Getting your weekday mornings started with Guy McDonald
is a sure golden treat. McDonald says, “I grew up
listening to East Coast Radio & dreamt of working for them one day. Other
life dreams saw me leave KZN in 2000 for the Muesli Curtain, Boerewors Curtain
& bright glint of Chardonnay wine in Cape Town. This year I celebrate 21
years of continual Radio service & what better way to celebrate that than
with a pot of Gold. East Coast Gold. Expect a show of Classic Hits from the
60s, 70s, and 80s, woven together with my Morning Glory song feature (because
everyone deserves their glory), useful bites of info, music history and my wry
sense of humour.” Business moves FORT opens Cape Town office FORT, a film, commercials and digital content production company, has announced that it will be opening new offices in Cape Town, the city where the company was founded in 2006 by co-founders Shukri Toefy and Amr Singh, and until now, a customer base it has remotely serviced since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Opening up offices in Cape Town has always been a part of our medium-term plan, particularly with our rise in global relevance and partnerships. Cape Town is a world-class filmmaking destination, and it’s incumbent on us to have a real presence in one of the film capitals of the world,” said Toefy, co-founder of FORT. While FORT’s head office and main post-production facility will remain in Johannesburg, the company is excited to once again have a permanent presence on the ground in Cape Town, further establishing FORT as one of the leading production company on the African continent. “The decision to open new offices in Cape Town is exciting; until recently, we worked remotely with our Cape Town clients. Having a permanent home base means we can work more closely with our clients, deliver our services more intimately, and give them the full FORT experience” said Jade Mollet, digital content producer at FORT’s Cape Town office. A Cape Town office will not only allow FORT to deliver digital content production services directly to Cape Town-based clients, but will provide these clients with access to FORT’s roster of directors. As the world readies itself for a borderless post-pandemic business climate, FORT remains
confident in its role to bolster the economic recovery through film and content creation. Isikhova Media launches Down to Earth magazine Independent publisher Isikhova Media has added another title to its
growing magazine portfolio, Down
to Earth. “Down to Earth is an exciting online,
bi-annual gardening guide launching spring 2021,” said Jason Aarons, publishing
director, Isikhova Media. “It will target both the novice gardener and the
not-so green-fingers and feature expert advice, essential seasonal gardening
tasks, ‘how-to’ gardening basics and ideas for South African gardeners in an
easy and accessible format.” Aarons
is no stranger to the gardening world having served as publisher of  ‘GardenTalk’ magazine for more than 10 years
and as managing editor of SA Gardening magazine for five. Editor Deborah Hele is another well-recognised garden industry name, having occupied the dual role of editor of GardenTalk for 14 years and as marketing manager for GardenShop for 13 years. Cape Town-based ad agency makes waves with launch of courier service business webpage Despite a challenging year for many creative agencies as a result of the Covid19 pandemic, black-owned ad agency, Durham, is celebrating the successful completion and roll-out of a business webpage for PAXI – a fast-growing local store-to-store parcel service powered by PEP, a division of Pepkor Holdings Ltd. Leaving
no opportunity or trend unexplored, Durham
provides a full scope of visual and tactical brand ideation that helps elevate
brands from start to finish. Based in the creative hub of Woodstock in Cape
Town, the youthful team use their creative skillset to execute compelling
concepts that are tailored to meet the needs of various brands across multiple
platforms. PAXI,
one of the fastest-growing courier services in South Africa, aims to connect
family and friends, businesses and customers, through a trustworthy and
affordable delivery service. PAXI recently celebrated its 5 million parcel
milestone and third anniversary. “The
PAXI business page concept ‘Making Life Easier’ was aimed at promoting the new
business page- set to launch soon, as the more convenient, time-saving
alternative that makes life easier for the consumer. The narrative focused on
the ‘obstacles’ that SMEs face and highlighted how the courier service is the
primary solution,” Durham Managing Director—Adeeb Franciscus explained. This
is a massive win for the boutique agency, which is disrupting the industry
through its offering of fully-fledged innovative marketing and digital
transformation services. Wunderman Thompson SA
Wins BCX lead agency account Wunderman Thompson South
Africa has been awarded the full-service lead agency account for BCX,
Telkom’s B2B business. This includes advertising, digital, CRM, PR
culture change management, and sales enablement. The award was made after an
extensive competitive pitch process, including some of the best agencies in
South Africa. Agency CEO Miles Murphy
commented: “We are over the moon on this win and honoured to be working with
such a forward-thinking technology business. BCX has asked us to help
them embark on their journey of customer-focused strategy and digital
transformation. This challenge of digital transformation in a quickly changes
business landscape is one that we are helping many of our other clients
navigate and win at.” bird, Africa No Filter’s
story agency, goes live Africa No
Filter (ANF), the not-for-profit organisation focused on narrative change, has
launched bird, Africa’s first, optimized-for-mobile,
story agency designed to shift narratives about and within the continent. Africa No
Filter executive director, Moky Makura, said the story agency was set
up to create compelling multimedia content for African media outlets
that’s more reflective of a vibrant, energetic and highly creative continent. “We
identified a clear need for more human interest and feature style stories to
counter the barrage of hard news – often negative – stories that are
shaping how the world sees Africa and how Africa sees itself.
bird’s mission is to create a home for these stories and make them
accessible to media outlets. This way we have the potential to reach millions
more with content that connects the continent and has the power to change
perceptions. It’s an incredibly exciting initiative and a potential game
changer for our mission,” said Makura. bird’s operating model is similar to that of
most global news agencies with the difference that it doesn’t charge its media
clients for use of its stories. Africa No Filter funds the creation of the
content through a network of contributors, which the team at bird edits and fact-checks, before delivering to its
digital platform for its clients. Ster-Kinekor
appeals to government to open up cinemas In March 2020 cinemas across the world closed their
doors in line with COVID-19 lockdown regulations. Ster-Kinekor theatres ushered
out their last guests on the 27 March, and this was the status quo until the 28August 2020. Once again with the move to level 4 lockdown on the 28 June it
has been forced to close its doors. Over 1.3 million customers in South Africa have
visited the cinema since reopening at the end of August, and this new closure
will have a devasting blow especially at a time when cinemas are starting to
experience an encouraging increase in attendances. Ster-Kinekor is currently in business rescue and the
impact of the currently lockdown will have a devastating impact on the
business.  As an industry we employ
thousands of people and create employment for thousands of others in related
industries. Ster-Kinekor is compliant with all COVID-19 protocols,
and the cinema remains one of the safest forms of entertainment due to access
control, the ability to distance patrons accordingly, strict management of
cleaning, and no-touch points for purchase (tickets and confectionery can be
purchased online).  The Health and Safety
of our staff and customers is our highest priority and we have been operating
been under strict Covid-19 protocols and even exceeding governmental
requirements.  Cinemas remain a safe
indoor venue with no infections traced back to cinema globally. CNN to be an Official
Broadcaster for Expo 2020 Dubai As the eyes of the
world turn towards the UAE from October-March for Expo 2020 Dubai, CNN will be
an official broadcaster for the event, bringing unrivalled coverage to global
audiences and staging a prominent presence at Expo itself. As an official broadcaster,
CNN is planning live broadcasting from Expo 2020 Dubai, including flagship
shows Connect the World with
Becky Anderson, Quest
Means Business and CNN
Talk. The network is also developing feature programming – covering
areas such as innovation¸ green issues and other pillars from the
Expo agenda – across all global platforms including CNN Arabic. This
content follows CNN’s preview Road
to Expo series and distinctive digital initiatives and will
be distributed globally via TV, digital and social platforms to reach hundreds
of millions of people around the world both via CNN and its extensive network
of affiliate broadcasters and publishers. In addition, CNN is
planning live and interactive activations across its various networks as well
as on the ground at the Expo to engage and inspire those attending Expo 2020
Dubai. Making moves TikTok concludes first rising voices
project by announcing cash grant of close to R1 million TikTok
has announced the inaugural cohort of Rising Voices grant recipients, with 20
creators receiving a cash grant of about R860 000 in total. Some of the grant
recipients include thozimusic, khanyisa_jaceni, doctor.siya and sphokuhle.n. The
grant follows the first-ever six-week Rising Voices incubator programme in June
where, along with 80 other creators, the grant recipients were given
mentorship, masterclasses and special training on content creation for TikTok.
In addition to the cash grant, recipients will continue to receive content
advice and support while they conceptualise and curate 10 pieces of content for
their platforms. TikTok will provide further support by amplifying their content
to users on the platform, which in turn will help those creators grow their
accounts. Boniswa
Sidwaba, TikTok content operations manager, Africa, said that growing a diverse
and all-inclusive community on TikTok remains a top priority for the platform.
“Through Rising Voices, our goal has always been to uplift and empower creators
of colour on the platform, providing the necessary support to help them express
themselves. With the right tools at their fingertips, we were truly spellbound
by the incredible talent that came to light over the last six weeks.” Makhosazana
Khanyile, CEO of the National Film & Video Foundation, said the NFVF was
proud to have been chosen to partner with TikTok on this groundbreaking
initiative. “The opportunity to mold young content creators into future
entrepreneurs that will learn to take advantage of all forms of media and
monetise their ideas is one we were happy to support. Congratulations to all
the young people that were chosen to take part and we look forward to future
collaborations,” she aid. Black Stripe Foundation
and YouTube Music award four community organisations with grants and mentorship
support The Black Stripe
Foundation, in partnership with YouTube Music, has announced the names of four
community organisations set to receive grant funding through the Triple M (Mzansi: Music to Heal – Music to
Unite) initiative. The organisations,
which will receive R100 000 in grants and skills development support, were
chosen for their outstanding proposals detailing plans to support and grow the
development of musical and creative content in South Africa. “The quality of
proposals we received in the application process was outstanding and refreshing,”
said Ben Cashdan, executive director, Black Stripe Foundation. “That said, the
selection process was rigorous and we are confident that we are supporting
projects that will have a positive impact in local communities and for emerging
talent.” KFC Fans trend on Twitter
as they celebrate their love for fried chicken on World Fried Chicken Day! Yesterday was World Fried
Chicken Day, and to celebrate it, KFC asked their fans to ‘tell us how much you
love fried chicken without telling us’! Tapping into the local
“tell me without telling me” trend on social media where people are asked to
share something about themselves without actually saying it, this campaign saw
some great engagement from their fans, resulting in some hilarious posts and
truly demonstrated South Africans’ love for freshly prepared fried chicken. “It is no secret that
South Africans love fried chicken – in fact, let me let you in on a little
secret – drumsticks and thighs are firm favourites – but it seems that on fried
chicken day our fans celebrated all types of fried chicken! Our campaign
reached over 42 000 organic impressions on Twitter alone and almost 10 000 views on Tik Tok! That’s a whole lot of KFC fried
chicken loving, although I am not surprised given that we have been spreading
finger ******* goodness in South Africa for the past 50 years,” says Suhayl
Limbada, Marketing Director at KFC South Africa. “Social media has
certainly become a great tool to engage consumers and of course, Tik Tok, as a
newer platform is a key channel to really drive brand love and for consumers to
have a little fun,” adds Limbada. BBC World Service’s podcast
The Comb is back BBC World Service’s
original podcast The Comb returns with more episodes on 9July 2021.
Once again, Kim Chakanetsa and her team will be combing the continent for the
stories that matter. The podcast’s mission is to unearth surprising,
fascinating and relevant stories, with the aim of reaching and engaging younger
audiences across Africa. Following a break, the
first new episode of The Comb will look at the devastating impact of having
your intimate images published online without your consent through the eyes of
two women in Uganda and Kenya. Listeners are invited
to suggest stories for discussion and investigation. Bringing the best of
BBC journalism, the podcast is available free from the BBC at www.bbcworldservice.com/thecomb
and on most podcast and audio-streaming apps. Diary Inspiring Festival of Inspiration continues through July There’s a
new event series online, the Festival
of Inspiration, and it is a game-changer for how content’s produced,
consumed and enjoyed. This
revolutionary, ‘never-been-done-before’ format sees over 48 artists across
music, fashion, art and travel, collaborate to produce something unique and
inspiring, is streamed on Wednesday nights. This
high-impact, high-volume Festival of Inspiration reinvents the nature of events
by giving artists a platform to showcase their creativity while creating an
engaging connection with their
audiences in a meaningful and innovative way. Discover a unique
experience weekly with established industry icons and up-and-coming talent,
such as Kwesta, Shekhinah, Ami Faku, Courtnaé Paul, Da
Capo, Muzi, Kid Fonque, Slaying Goliath, That Dam Vandal, Boogy Maboi, Katchie
Nzama, Manu Worldstar, Neo Mahlangu, MFR Souls, DreamTeam, Speedsta, TDK
Macassette, Beast, Locnville, Lerato Kgamanyane, Mxolisi Mkhize and so many
more. Each episode will be hosted by Slikour, Nina Hastie, Smash Africa and
Scoop Makhathini. Streamed Wednesdays at 7pm until 9pm on
//www.vuseinspiredlive.com/, for a limited time only. Only for people
over the age of 18. SANEF and SADAG present Mental Health Matters Workshop The South African
National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) in partnership with the South African
Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG) are striving to prioritise journalism
wellness in all newsrooms across the country this year. We are excited to
announce that the Webinars are kicking off and one will be held on July 10th
with all SANEF members and all affected journalists. The virtual training is to
be held on Saturday, 10 July, from 9am to 12pm. Please see the attached
invitation for more details.  We invite and encourage all journalists to
attend. Please click here to register: //bit.ly/3y76oKe It will cover key topics
including grief, trauma, burnout, compassion fatigue, managing anxiety, coping
with workplace stress, depression, etc. July is Mental Health
Awareness Month and there is no better time than now to roll out this project
to all newsrooms. SANEF AND SADAG encourages all editors and journalists across
the country to make use of these services and to participate in the webinars. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.