There were some positives for media to take away from 2020, and  this year holds plenty more for those agencies able to perform at their peak. The year 2020 does not bring back fond
memories for the world. The pandemic brought about a hard lockdown in South
Africa as in many other countries, which in turn created a mass of uncertainty
that reshaped media consumption patterns, shut down many key performing sectors
such as alcohol and sport, disrupted schooling, created consumer and business
flux, and most importantly destabilised our economy – to name but a few of the
impacts. As I reflect from a media and business point
of view, one of the biggest challenges that we faced at the beginning of the
pandemic was around redesigning strategies to deliver ‘cost containment’
measures. This was understandable, considering the levels of uncertainty that
we were dealing with at the time, and based on my experience during uncertain
times, marketing and media budgets are the first to be reconsidered. This
resulted in the industry forecasting to end the year on a negative 10-20% media
investment versus that planned for most brands. There was definitely some light after the
initial onset. As the pandemic started to settle in and while campaigns were
being paused, redirected, or cut completely, media agencies who had solid
operational structures to respond to this global catastrophe provided a stable
environment for their clients. This stability and specialist support guided
many brands in how to focus on growth and put the consumer journey at the pulse
of the marketing ecosystem. The conversion from uncertainty to stability led to
the South African media industry ending on a much better note than predicted
early in 2020. GroupM’s This Year, Next Year: Global 2020
End-of-Year Forecast Report indicates that overall media investment declined by
5.8% worldwide. This figure is very similar to how many brands ended the year
in South Africa, which was stronger than forecasted at the start of the
pandemic. When we compare these figures to South Africa’s GDP, StatsSA reports
that the economy showed steady progress in Q3 2020 with an annualised growth
rate of 13.5%, and an annual year-end figure of -5.8%. These figures directly correlate to our
approximate media investment decline and suggest that South African media
investment gained steady traction, ending the year strong as we were in line with
GDP. Digital media was a key driver in maintaining
high levels of media investment. As consumer patterns and behaviours shifted,
we saw the rise of video on demand, content extensions from traditional media
platforms to online, a huge spike in social media consumption as
person-to-person socialising became more and more restricted, and the boom of
e-commerce – Nielsen reported that 30% of all South Africans were shopping more
online. Innovation has been a buzzword in the media
industry over the years and many agencies have got it right. I have seen how
agency operations with diversified product offerings including advanced
technologies, integrated workforces and specialist skills have gained fair market
share for clients and the media sector in 2020. I foresee this trend continuing
in 2021, with many agencies that have not yet remodelled or reshaped their
businesses quickly getting on board. Agencies of the future cannot be
complacent or reactive to market forces. The evolution of the consumer, pandemic or
not, dictates that we need to be agile enough to change and predict change, and
keep our media partnerships flexible to accommodate change. I believe that the
only way to provide this stability to brands/clients/staff, and to deliver
incremental YoY growth is through flexible and diversified operational
structures. For the longest time we’ve spoken about the
high costs of data in South Africa being one of the biggest challenges we face,
especially for digital media transformation. In 2020 digital media went from
‘transforming slowly’ to ‘developing instantly’ and showing results. Data is
one of the commodities enabling consumers in South Africa today – more so in
this new normal world in which we are living. I foresee partners in this space working hard
to ensure that all South Africans have access to data and services, cost
effectively, before the end of 2021. This will further enable us to do two jobs
in the media ecosystem: first, to connect and engage with consumers when most
effective without having to worry about access to data being a threat, and
second, to showcase the power and role of each medium at any given moment in a
converged media ecosystem. The year ahead looks bright and exciting in
South Africa. TV will continue to drive reach, content will be key, digital
will enhance other media platforms and grow YoY by at least 30-40% in 2021 (my
assumption based on 2020 trends), radio will keep pushing digital innovation,
e-commerce will have a larger base, and so forth. We keep looking at which media platforms will
work best or grow exponentially in 2021 in terms of reach and other audience
ratings, but I do not believe these numbers will be good enough to establish
growth. I believe agencies need to focus
on building formulas through powerful data and analytics to showcase brand or
business performance in media – irrespective of whether ROI modelling is in
place or not. Performance is key in making the 2021 media ecosystem in South Africa successful, and agencies have the opportunity to design what good looks like. Claudelle Naidoo is the managing director of MediaCom South Africa. Her experience in the marketing, media and research industries across Africa spans more than 20 years. She believes her passion for research, data, and analytics is the driving force behind her career growth and development, coupled with a hunger and eagerness to learn from experts, teach others and grow alongside people. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.