Join our MOST Awards discussion at 10am on 3 June to find out how the media industry is adapting to the budget challenges and dramatic shifts in audience needs since the onset of Covid-19. In these extraordinarily challenging times, it’s easy to forget just how wonderful our industry is, and how amazing we – as South African media owners, media agencies and marketing specialists – can be. The world has turned upside down and yet we continue to create, innovate and deliver dynamic content to an ever-changing audience. The MOST Awards recognise these Herculean efforts,
celebrating excellence in the media industry – from media owners across print,
digital, cinema, broadcast and out of home (OOH) platforms, through to
specialist and full-service media agencies – encouraging exceptional service
delivery, innovation and
healthy professional competition. This highlight in the media industry’s networking calendar also offers
an opportunity to reflect on the successes, challenges and changes in the media
industry as revealed by MOST’s research survey. With the 2020 awards being postponed
due to lockdown restrictions, the 2021 awards are more important than ever, to
give as an opportunity to reassess where we are as an industry, celebrate the
wins, and illuminate the challenges. In the lead-up to the awards, the MOST Awards along with our partners Jacaranda FM, Primedia Broadcasting, Carat, DStv Media Sales, Mercurial Media, Mediamark, The MediaShop, ViacomCBS Africa, Black Media Outdoor, Torque Mediaand Thirst, started hosting online events which anyone with an interest in the media industry can’t afford to miss. The second topic in the series, ‘Harnessing the Sales Vision’, promises to provide a fascinating discussion given the profound changes the media industry has undergone since the last MOST Awards in 2019. Sales teams have always had a tough job: it’s an understatement to say it’s even tougher now. Sales
professionals need to juggle a varied skill set: resilience, self-discipline
and creativity, the ability to write, understand numbers, be tech savvy, and
nurture relationships. But, as the needs of advertisers become more complex, as
media strategies move seamlessly between diverse channels, and as analytics and
tech-driven data drive campaigns, they are having to adapt, reskill and
innovate at a crazy pace. Amazon CEO Jeff
Bezos says that for an innovative culture to exist in an organisation, the
vision, mission and values need to be crystal clear — and that vision must be
driven by an obsession with the needs of your audience. Do we, as an industry,
have a clear vision of our audience needs, which since the onset of Covid, have
changed dramatically? As lockdowns ease, some consumer media habits will return, but research by Kantar’s
Media Trends & Predictions 2021 shows that next year
audience behaviours will be even more complex and difficult to decipher. In
response to this, media content and sales strategies will need to be constantly
re-assessed. Covid-19 has also had a huge impact on the critical role of relationship-building. Nurturing relationships with clients, and between media owners and agencies, is challenging when face-to-face interaction is a health hazard. How does the art of negotiation change when communication is remote? The pandemic has also had a devastating impact on media budgets. Media spend has dropped across all media types, except digital. Brands are spending less and deferring campaigns. There’s a greater emphasis on return on investment and using big data to drive that. Sales teams are having to rethink traditional revenue models. In the upcoming discussion we will ask the sales execs if and how they are meeting their targets. And we’ll find out if the industry is ready for more outcome-based revenue models. There are also
upsides in this brave new world for the media industry. Non-linear viewing is on the rise as streaming and
technology takes centre stage. With people forced to stay at home more, media
players have the advantage of
addressing a captured audience, ready to give them their undivided attention.
We need to ensure our sales
models are reflecting this changing landscape. Moderated by the dynamic, award-winning radio presenter and
public speaker Kenzy Mohapi, this promises
to be an exciting discussion with some hard-hitters from the media industry as
our panellists. Panellists: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.