“Information is a public good. […] and as a public good, it needs public support.” ~ Joseph E. Stiglitz Today marks 30 years since the signing of
the landmark Declaration of Windhoek on 
Promoting an  Independent and
Pluralistic African Press in Namibia. The theme for 2021 is ‘Information as a
Public Good’. As the United Nations points out, the Declaration was originally
signed with the aim of making the free flow of information a public good. Thirty years on and we “now have incredible
opportunities to express ourselves, stay informed and connect with others. But
we are  also  facing 
a  rise  in 
misinformation  and  hate 
speech,  the  upending 
of  media  business models and the concentration of
power in the hands of just a few private companies.The pandemic  has 
underlined  the  need 
for  reliable  information. 
It  is  independent 
journalism  that  has 
helped  us  make 
sense  of  this 
crisis”, says Audrey Azoulay, director-general of UNESCO, on World Press Freedom Day. “This 
theme  ties  in 
with  UNESCO’s  efforts 
to  ensure  the 
long-term  health  of 
independent,  pluralistic  journalism, 
and  the  safety 
of  media  workers 
everywhere,  including through the
UN Plan of Action for the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
As  part 
of  these  efforts, 
we  are  working 
to create more  transparency  on online platforms in areas such as content
moderation, while respecting human rights and international freedom of
expression rules. We are equipping citizens with the media and information
literacy skills they need to navigate this new information landscape,so they
can avoid being duped or manipulated online,” Azoulay added in a statement. “Sixty-two journalists were killed for
their work in 2020, and many more lost their lives to COVID-19. We owe them a
debt of gratitude. The pandemic has also exacerbated existing challenges, with
numerous media now facing financial losses. The power of Internet platforms has
been further entrenched, with lockdowns forcing much of daily life online. And
false information and rumours have flourished, in some cases with fatal
consequences,” Azoulay said. Meanwhile, the South African National Editor’s Forum (Sanef) said it adopted the Windhoek Declaration – which was consistent with Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – upon its formation in 1996. The founding
journalists and publishers of the Windhoek Declaration, it said in a statement,
maintained that the African States should be encouraged to provide
constitutional guarantees of freedom of the press and freedom of association. “In 2021
journalists are facing increased attacks, including imprisonment, torture, and
murder. In South Africa journalists are attacked by criminals, are harassed by
cyberbullies online, receive death threats and- women journalists especially –
are often targeted by party political supporters,” Sanef representatives said. Sanef has, over the past 25 years, championed media freedom and “fought to ensure that journalists are safe and protected while speaking truth to power. Added to the stranglehold of daily attacks and intimidation, our journalists (along with all frontline workers) brave the threat of Covid-19 infections and risk to their health in their efforts to bring us the truth”. It said, “journalists have played a significant role for the public good especially under the Covid-19 pandemic. We will continue to campaign for media that is ethical and truthful at our upcoming Ethics conference later this month”. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.