The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Matrix Group
strengthened with acquisition
of creative agency, SoulProviders Collective The Matrix Communications
Group (MCG) has bought creative agency SoulProviders Collective (SPC), which
celebrated its 10th birthday in May. SPC is a 100% locally owned, owner-managed
pan-African creative agency with vast experience in the ever-evolving digital
and communications space. Founded by Sarah-Jane Boden in 2011, the SPC team has
worked across a multitude of local, pan-African and global brands and
organisations, creating outstanding creative content and campaigns that reflect
their signature progressive touch and cross-platform expertise. “Hearing
Kgaugelo Maphai’s vision, I knew that the Matrix Group would be the right
family for our vibrant agency to join,” said Boden, founder and creative
director of SPC. Boden
will step down at the end of June 2021, and the agency will appoint a new
managing director to ensure a seamless handover to the new owners. SPC has
serviced clients from different sectors over the past few years. Their current
clients include, but are not limited to, the AMKA group, Decathlon, Good Governance
Africa, the V&A Waterfront, Flame Studios, AfricaCheck, Didi Global and
Vivo Energy. “The
acquisition of SPC has come at an opportune time for the Matrix Group. We are
happy to acquire a youthful agency with a rich culture, and an abundance of energy,
that enables us to resolve clients’ challenges with imaginative, creative
solutions,” said Dineo Mahloele, managing director of MCG. Kgaugelo Maphai,
chairperson of Magnia Investment Holdings (MIH) and chief executive officer of
MCG said: “Our investment policy is to partner with owner-managed businesses
which allows for agility and swift decision-making and this acquisition
solidifies the group’s new positioning which will be announced later this
month.” Agencies within the group
have already been invited to a number of pitches in the last few months and
they are all looking forward to partnering with more clients who are brave,
honest and looking for effective integrated marketing and communications (IMC)
solutions. People moves Hamiltons Advertising agency celebrates 25-year
birthday with the appointment of Deputy MD and move to new purpose-built office
space Full-service
advertising agency, Hamiltons Advertising, is celebrating its 25th year of
business this month with the appointment of deputy MD, Nicole Botha, and a move
to their brand new offices in Brackengate Office Park. Said Lisa Currey,
managing sirector of Hamiltons Advertising, “The
past 25 years has been an exciting journey, with many opportunities and
challenges – none more so than this recent year! Despite everything, I am
thrilled to celebrate this milestone with a thriving creative portfolio, the
appointment of new leadership, stunning new offices, and a growing team – the
quality of which is reflected in the impressive roster of clients that we
serve.” The
Cape Town-based agency has grown from strength to strength from its humble beginnings
as a design studio in the centre of Cape Town’s
bustling CBD – establishing itself as a fully integrated marketing agency,
specialising in the retail sector. During
the 25 year tenure working with the Food Lover’s
Market Group, Hamiltons Advertising has created a strategic partnership with
the brand, which has seen the retailer grow from 5 stores to 120, and more than
300 FreshStop @ Caltex outlets nationwide. More recently, Hamiltons Advertising
has created digital content for @home as part of their Yellow Room division
(TYR). TYR is the content creation and digital division of the mothership. Tribeca welcomes two new
account executives Tribeca Public
Relations (Tribeca) has appointed two new account executives,
welcoming S’phindile Garcer and Onela Mafu to the team. Garcer brings her
background in journalism and internal communications to the team that works
with Royal HaskoningDHV, Malaria No More UK, Nimue Skin Technology, Vitaforce,
and SOLAL. She holds a BA Journalism from the University of Johannesburg and a
Post-Graduate Diploma in Project Management from the Management College of
South Africa. Mafu has four years’
public relations experience and works across Vuma, McAfee, Webfleet Solutions
and GreenMatter. She holds a BA (Hons) in Corporate and Marketing Communication
from the University of the Free State and is currently completing a course in programme
and project management through the same university. “S’phindile and Onela are
vibrant, passionate, inquisitive, and are eager to learn and develop new
skills, while achieving great results for the clients they work with,” said
Nicola Tarr, business unit director at Tribeca. Humanz steps up their game in South African influencer market with new
manager Humanz,
an AI-powered platform for influencer campaigns of all levels, announces the
hiring of Federico Dedeu as country manager for South Africa. Dedeu brings more
than 18 years of experience in marketing and advertising, and has held
positions at some of the leading advertising and media agencies in South
Africa, having led accounts for brands like Coca-Cola and Standard Bank. He has extensive experience in empowering content creators and
social media influencers for successful collaborations. Stepping into the role
of country manager means that Dedeu will not only be responsible for managing
the existing partnerships between influencers and brands but also use his
extensive knowledge and experience within the industry to implement new plans
and strategies to ensure that Humanz maintains its aggressive growth within the
region. Before Humanz, Federico was the VP of Middle East & Africa
for indaHash, where he worked for nearly four years on building, managing, and
coaching remote teams of influencer marketing professionals. He has a
postgraduate diploma in business administration and management from the
University of Witwatersrand. Business moves SuperSport invests in the
future of South African sport SuperSport
has launched of SuperSport Schools, a groundbreaking
initiative to change the future of South African schools’ sport. As part of the
strategy, SuperSport acquired a majority stake in Schools Sport Live, which
will see the business rebranded as SuperSport Schools. Schools sport is the foundation of South Africa’s sporting success and this venture will aim to identify and expose young talent by broadcasting as many schools sporting fixtures as possible, enabled by Nashua. The production plan will embrace new technology by giving schools access to innovative artificial intelligence-based production to deliver a dynamic multi-screen viewing of schools and youth sport. Outside of the coverage
across SuperSport channels, the SuperSport Schools mobile application will
provide parents and other interested parties access to view schools sport
anytime, anywhere, live and on-demand. SuperSport chief executive,
Marc Jury, said the success of schools sport is fundamental to producing a
winning sporting nation. “This initiative is a natural extension of our mission
to play our part to grow the pipeline for South Africa’s future sporting
heroes. Schools Sport is the foundation from which great sporting nations are
built. The stronger the foundation, the brighter our future sporting stars
can shine,” he said. Proteas netball captain,
Bongi Msomi and World Cup-winning Springbok, Lukhanyo Am, will be leading the
campaign with the hope of taking SuperSport Schools to every corner of the
continent. MAPS 9-month data to be
released in June The
Marketing Research Foundation (MRF) is releasing the next phase of the
Marketing All Product Survey (MAPS) in June. It encompasses nine-month data
(July 2020 to March 2021) and will be released towards the end of June 2021
before fieldwork continues for the first full year dataset, set for release in
October. “The data collection for
the first quarter of 2021 has been completed and is currently being verified in
preparation for the MRF’s scrutiny process,” said MRF CEO, Johann Koster. “I
can confirm that this is an intensive task that tests the integrity and
stability of the data, which is managed by the MRF
Research Committee.” Just as the MAPS Wave 1
data was completed, the data will be prepared for final release together with
the data tree going to the software bureaux beforehand enabling subscribers and
their agencies access to the updated data. The exact release date will be
confirmed at a later stage by the MRF. “Conducting research during
the global pandemic was challenging but it will be interesting to see how the
consumer’s behaviour changed from the release of the first wave to the results
of the 4th quarter,” said Virginia Hollis, the MRF’s Board Chairperson.
“Notwithstanding the hurdles MAPS’s fieldwork faced during Covid, we and our
subscribers are confident that this data will have a great impact in the daily
planning and strategic focus of our marketers and agencies.” Media Brokerage Africa
brings Contrend AI-Powered Platform to Africa Johannesburg-based Media
Brokerage Africa will connect African corporations and marketing agencies with
IMMedia’s ground-breaking platform, Contrend.
This deal sees IMMedia’s official entry into the continent’s booming online
marketing industry market. Developed by
Singapore-based IMMedia Holdings – which recently closed its Series A funding
round – Contrend analyses large
data sets to maximise return on investment for content marketing. Digging
deeper than simple SEO and social-listening tools, Contrend uses a holistic algorithm to measure engagement across
text, video and image media. The artificial intelligence then provides a
complete picture of the types of content audiences are consuming, and the
topics and formats that will be popular in the coming months. It works in any
vertical, in any market, in any language. “The days of traditional
content marketing are over. Now, it’s essential for corporations to understand
what, exactly, audiences desire,” said Peter Bakker, MD of Contrend and IMMedia
Content. REV Media Group chooses
VSN for automated content distribution REV Media
Group (RMG), part of the Media Prima Berhad Group and Malaysia’s leading
digital media company, recently renewed its solution for content scheduling and
delivery to digital platforms with VSN’s VSNCrea and VSNExplorer MAM systems. Initially,
REV Media Group was looking to replace its content management system, and
VSNExplorer MAM was the system of choice to expand its capabilities and meet
specific requirements for metadata automation, video ingest and archiving and
social media publishing, as well as being deployed 100% in the Cloud (GCP) to
enable remote access and integrate with local systems to extract scheduling
information and create customized workflows. Changing the face
of Africa’s Advertising This Africa Day, 25
May 2021, marks the rise of a new era in African photography as the African
nation, media and advertising houses, business, and stakeholders in need of
authentic African stock footage as well as creatives from all parts of the
world are called to join a World-changing event, that will not be empowering
and showcase the authenticity of African visual storytelling but also save the
photography perspective in Africa. Afristock and
Afrikaren Media have agreed to collaborate and host a virtual event that seeks
to highlight the importance of promoting and celebrating African creatives and
storytelling. This free event
will cover a wide variety of issues regarding the accessibility to African
stock footage and the lack of positive representation of African photographs in
advertising. Discussions regarding how we can promote platforms for African
creatives and showcase positive images which could greatly contribute to the
growth of the African continent will be raised and discussed. These key issues
will not only be hosted on Hopin platform Moderated by Karen Mwendera, an
award-winning journalist and founder of Afrikaren Media, but key African
speakers will too be present to help answer and provide insight on the broad
landscape of photography in Africa. World
Out of Home Organization to unveil new audience measurement initiative Audience delivery is critical for the
development and trading of all media, with credible, transparent and
accountable measurement needed by advertisers, buyers and sellers alike. Accordingly, the World Out of Home
Organization unveiled its Creating Global Guidelines for Out of Home Audience
Measurement initiative at its European Forum on 18 May. WOO is the only global organisation for the
collaboration, development and promotion of OOH media. They have formed a
Technical Committee to include the leading independent OOH audience measurement
bodies from 13 countries, across six continents, alongside four leading
international OOH businesses. Meltwater now listed and trading on Euronext
Growth Meltwater,
a leading global provider of media intelligence and social analytics
Software-as-a-Service solutions, has been admitted to trading on Euronext
Growth Oslo (ticker code: MWTR). “We
founded the company because the world is drowning in data and we saw a need for
a software that could cut through the noise online and help people stay on top
of their competitors, customers, and industry in real-time. Twenty years in, we
realise that this need is much bigger than we ever dreamt about,” said Jørn
Lyseggen, founder and Executive Chairman of Meltwater. The
company offers a fully integrated offering that cuts across and bridges a
variety of use cases such as public relations, communications, marketing, lead
generation and customer relations. PwC back in the saddle at
Great Zuurberg Trek Long-standing title
sponsors PwC have renewed their backing of the Great Zuurberg Trek (GZT)
mountain bike race after the event was put on hold for more than a year due to
the Covid pandemic. The three-day boutique
offering will be held as usual at the Zuurberg Mountain Village, which
overlooks Addo near Port Elizabeth. But this time the dates have moved from the
traditional May slot to August 27 to 29. It is the seventh edition
of the GZT and professional services firm PwC have been involved each year to
provide a memorable race experience. Event co-owner Trevor
Hayter, from Hayterdale Trails, said those efforts created the core of their
relationship with the sponsors. “I think the reason we work so well together is
that each year we have delivered what they expected. Every time we hold the
event we try to add extra value for the riders and the sponsors, which is
particularly important to us.” The 2021
South African Workplace Equality Index (SAWEI) is live The
South African Workplace Equality Index (SAWEI) is a biennial nationwide study
seeking to recognise the most inclusive and LGBT+ friendly companies in South
Africa. By
measuring internal policies and behaviours around LGBT+ issues, SAWEI allows
companies to identify their relative strengths and areas for improvement within
a clearly structured framework based on international best practice. Businesses
are more successful and more competitive when everyone comes to work with equal
respect, support, and opportunity for advancement, no matter whom they love or
how they identify. Conducted
for the third time this year by the non-profit organisation, the LGBT+
Management Forum, this index is the only one of its kind in the Africa-Middle
East region. Corporate participation in SAWEI is growing year on
year. The first survey in 2018 saw 17 companies employing 30 000 people
participating in the survey. In 2019 the numbers increased to 27 companies with
144 000 employees, including Gold recognition for Microsoft, EY, Accenture,
P&G and PWC. First ever chess-focused sports agency
launched World
Chess, the company behind the game-changing rise in the popularity of chess and
the organiser of the recent Chess Championship Matches in New York and London, has
launched a chess-focused sports marketing agency. It’s the world’s first sports
agency focused exclusively on chess. The
agency, Chess and Company, represents top chess talent and events, and aims to
help brands across transport, technology, retail, hospitality and luxury
sectors, to connect with chess in a way that has a long-lasting effect on the
sport and to bring 600 million chess players closer to the brands’ offerings. Nadia
Panteleeva, who signed the biggest sponsorship deals in chess, including
Kaspersky, PhosAgro, Algorand, as a head of partnership for World Chess, will
lead the new agency. Making moves YFM and Smirnoff Team Up
For #BeTheNext Radio DJ Search As trendsetters in the
radio industry, YFM has partnered with Smirnoff giving one campus DJ the
opportunity to win a spot on Gauteng’s biggest youth radio station. Over the next few weeks,
host of The Nightcap, Lula Odiba will be co-hosting her show with aspirant
radio presenters, which will culminate in one of them eventually earning a
3-month contract with the station. Contestants from TUKS FM,
UJFM, PUK FM, VOW FM, BMH RADIO and TUT FM will showcase their radio talent
every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday live on-air between 7PM and 10PM. Voting will be up to the
listener and the final Top 3 will be announced after 12 weeks where they will
compete for the opportunity to join YFM. #BeTheNext is one way the station is
looking to develop, nurture and showcase the country’s best young talent. 5Drive on Africa Tour In celebration of Africa
Month the 5FM afternoon drive team, 5Drive,
have taken to the road exploring Lesotho, Botswana and Namibia. Nick Hamman, Nadia Romanos, Jude van Wyk and Bibi Mbangula set off on their
adventure last week and have already had an unbelievable, snowy experience in
Lesotho. The team have been
documenting their trip across their own and the 5FM social media platforms and
have met some incredible people along the way and experienced some of the best
the countries have to offer. From climbing the steep hills of the Moteng Pass
to a true cultural village experience at Momohase, a visit to the popular
Afriski Resort and Liphofung Caves and dancing in the snow, the team enjoyed
being outside of South Africa. “I had the most beautiful
experience and what I want people to understand from my experience is that we
live in an exceptionally beautiful part of the world and we should be telling
the stories and visiting the people and places and hidden gems that make
Southern Africa so great. The more we do that, the more we’ll build ourselves
as a continent” said Hamman of his experience so far. The team are currently in
Botswana with highlights in the country that will include a visit to Chobe
National Park, a Chobe River Tour and game drives and of course a trip to the
UNESCO World Heritage site the Okavango Delta. The team are staying at Chobe
Game Lodge – their home of for the rest of the week before they head to
Namibia. Volkswagen celebrates local languages by filming the TV ad for the new
Tiguan in isiZulu In an effort to celebrate the country’s diverse cultures and languages as
well as to connect authentically with South African customers, Volkswagen
has produced its first-ever television and digital advertisements in
isiZulu. Creating
locally-produced advertising material, that tells uniquely South African
stories and reflects local characters, has been a consistent priority for the
Volkswagen marketing team.While most automotive brands adapt
centrally-developed creative assets, especially within the current financial
and logistical challenges of Covid-19, Volkswagen remains dedicated to crafting
award-winning work that celebrates the inspiring human truths of South Africa
and its people. To produce the new
advertisement Volkswagen partnered with local filmmakers, Egg
Films and director Zwelethu Radebe. On directing the advert Radebe
said, “As a black South African filmmaker, I am incredibly proud to have worked
on Volkswagen’s first isiZulu television commercial.” World-class speakers lead
2021 Highway Africa Summit Conference World-class media and
journalism experts have lined up to speak at the 2021 Highway Africa Summit
Conference, which will be held virtually from 21-23 June. In a series of
high-level keynotes, testimonies from the field and research-led debates, the
experts will delve into the future of African media and journalism in the age of
the platform economy, which has deprived media of critical advertising and
audience revenue just as Covid-19 has exacerbated the media’s deepening
economic and financial crisis. The speakers, researchers
and media bosses will take a hard look at the business models of media
companies in Africa, emerging journalism practices and news organisations, and
probe practical and novel solutions that seek to take advantage of the ‘new
normal’ that is emerging in the wake of Coviid-19, which has decimated media firms
and entire economies around the globe. Join Professor Zizi Papacharissi and Professor Tawana Kupe, leaders in their respective fields, who will kick off the Highway Africa summit conference on Monday, 21 June, from 9.45am-10:30am (Southern Africa Standard Time) as they zoom into “Africa’s rising in the platform economy: A focus on creativity and innovation”. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.