An examination of how in-housing affects the relationship between agencies and clients. I recently had the pleasure of joining an agency-brand fireside chat at the Programmatic Pioneers virtual event. Titled ‘Thinking partnership, not service: How can agencies and brands build collaborative relationships to ensure mutually beneficial and highly successful alliances?’, Andrew Lowdon, director of agency services at ISBA, moderated the event. I was joined on screen by Richard Bettinson, director of media strategy and planning for EMEA at Hilton. These are some of the areas we discussed. The
topic of in-housing has not taken over our conversations with clients. We still
think it’s an important topic, but the majority of our clients are not
accelerating their shift to in-house models. We believe there’s a widespread
realisation that taking all media in-house is a very difficult task in terms of
talent, processes like finance and overall ways of working. However, we are
building hybrid models that create a much deeper connectivity with teams made
up of clients and agency talent, working together as a joint team. It could be
called in-housing, but we see it as a positive evolution of the agency and
client partnership. The
better models for in-housing have this integration and alignment at heart, so
if there’s a single best practice, it is the focus on ensuring that agency
teams are closely connected to in-house teams, rather than in-house teams
working more directly with clients’ teams. This connectivity drives not only
best practices such as better audience planning, but also reporting and
analytics with more data consistency and campaign intelligence. The latter is
critical in ensuring there is one version of truth across both the agency team
and in-house team. It’s an
interesting evolution as it means the marketplace is becoming progressively
more competitive for recruitment. Traditionally, we had to focus on being attractive
versus other agency groups. We now have to be competitive in a wider context.
However, being a glass half-full sort of person, I see this as extremely
positive: increased expertise on the
client side allows us to have more sophisticated conversations, do more innovative
things and generally move faster. We want
to ensure that our clients have full visibility of how their marketing budgets
are invested, whether it’s for agency fees, media spend, tech costs, and so
forth. This is critical and one of the core pillars of our organisation,
Publicis Groupe. We completely agree that this is critical in any agency/client
relationship. Over the last few years, the focus has been around programmatic
and transparency. Traditionally, agencies have been more concentrated on the
demand side, but we have now taken an active stance on helping to solve
transparency issues on the supply side. Zenith’s involvement in the ISBA
programmatic study is a great testament to our commitment to transparency. Data has
played a central role for many years and has driven the growth seen in
programmatic investments. However, it’s true that we are seeing an evolution in
its sophistication, with an increasingly higher volume of first-party data
being used versus the third-party variety. We’re seeing clients very focused on
building second-party data partnerships, which we believe will be critical in
the future and give brands partnering together a unique asset. We’re also
gearing up for the changes coming with the gradual disappearance of trackers
such as IDFA or third-party cookies. Getting ready for this new future now is
essential! If the
client really wishes to go in-house, we would always recommend that they build
their in-house operations with the support of the agency, and effectively
create a hybrid model where the agency, in-house team and client team work
together with common goals. A connected framework would allow a client still to
benefit from their agency’s expertise, while managing directly their in-house
activation of media. As you’ve probably gathered, we do not believe that all media will move in-house. However, we see a future where agencies and clients work very closely together on defining the right integrated model. We’ve talked about hybrid models and we see them as the future, where the ways of working and processes are engineered together, and they drive a much deeper level of connectivity between agencies and clients. This hybrid approach allows clients to focus on the performance of their business, and agencies to provide their expertise in strategy, execution and technology as we increasingly move to a world of automation. This story was first published in The Media Yearbook 2021. You can download the digital issue here. Benoit Cacheux is global chief digital officer at Zenith. He is responsible for helping define global clients’ acceleration plans when it comes to advertising in the digital age. Cacheux’s focus ranges from building the right data and technological capabilities through to delivering new operational models for media activation, with the objective of driving superior growth for global organisations from a range of sectors such as FMCG, pharma, automotive, appliances, luxury, eyewear and beauty. He’s passionate about the latest ways of driving commerce, and innovation in marketing related to machine learning and blockchain. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.