The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: New press ombud and two deputy press ombuds appointed Carmel Rickard has been appointed the new press ombud, with Tyrone August and Herman Scholtz taking on the duties as deputy press ombuds. The three part-time appointments were made from applications received by the independent appointments panel of the Press Council of South Africa, chaired by Justice Yvonne Mokgoro. They are part of a restructure of the Press Council’s system of mediation and arbitration of complaints aimed at providing increased capacity and efficiency. The new appointees will work alongside PCSA public advocate, Fanie Groenewald. Rickard writes about the law, justice and human rights. She has an LLM in constitutional law, is a regular columnist for several publications, including Justice in Africa. She has experience as a radio journalist (for Capital Radio, the BBC’s Africa Service and others) but now works almost exclusively as a print and online writer. August was editor of the Cape Times newspaper as well as editor of Leadership magazine. He was a founding member of the South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) and an executive member of the Freedom of Expression Institute (FXI) and the Black Editors’ Forum (BEF). He was general secretary of both the Media Workers’ Association of South Africa (Mwasa) and the Association of Democratic Journalists (ADJ). He holds an MA from the University of London and a PhD from the University of the Western Cape. Scholtz is an advocate at the Pretoria Bar. He is a former journalist with 13 years’ experience in newspapers, magazines and broadcast media. Most recently he was the national news and business editor of Rapport and has served as legal advisor to the National Press Club. He holds an honours degree in journalism and a master of laws degree in information and communication law. People moves Broadcaster Jeremy Maggs joins Brave Group Broadcaster and
journalist Jeremy Maggs has joined Brave Group as managing director of BOLD,
its executive communications and advisory firm. Brave Group is a majority
black-owned integrated communications groups according to the authoritative
annual Scopen Report 2019/20. BOLD is a vital addition to the company’s
fast-growing suite of offerings to further drive integration, offering high-level
communications services aimed principally at the C-suite. Drawing on over 35 years’
experience in the media industry, Maggs will work with C-suite executives in
advising, crafting, and fine-tuning both internal and external communications. “I have been developing
this concept for some time having observed first-hand where there are serious
communication deficits in public companies and state-owned entities,” Maggs
said. “With my knowledge of the current media landscape, I believe BOLD will
play a vital role in developing and implementing cogent and tactical media
strategies and messaging.” Brave Group Chairman
Andile Khumalo said: “I have known and worked alongside Jeremy for a number of
years. His understanding of the current complexities of the media environment
and how to craft solutions will be of major benefit to any company. We are
delighted he is joining our fast-growing team.” Congratulations to the TikTok
#risingvoices class of 2021 One
hundred black creators have joined the inaugural Rising Voices project – a
six-week incubator programme that is a first-of-its-kind for TikTok in South
Africa. Among these 100 voices are creators who showcase various skills and
talents, which span across multiple categories, including comedy, fashion,
beauty, meme, body art, singing, dancing and healthcare – all types of content
that we’re eager to see so much more of on TikTok. Through this programme, which officially kicks off this month, participants will be taken through a rigorous content creation boot camp where they will learn digital skills to help amplify their content creation abilities, as well as have access to career-building resources and industry experts such as social media influencer Nadia Jaftha, filmmaker Mmabatho Montsho and DNA Brand Architects founder, Sylvester Chauke. “We
were thrilled to have received over 2000 entries during the application period,
with so many of the video submissions showcasing the incredible talent of black
content creators in South Africa. As we start the programme, we wish all
candidates the best and look forward to seeing how each creator brings the
skills they learn to life,” said Boniswa Sidwaba, content operations manager,
Africa. Mapula Nkosi one of 11 top media
executives elected to INMA board of directors Members
of the International News Media Association (INMA) elected 11 new executives to
its governing Board of Directors during the non-profit organisation’s annual
business meeting on Wednesday. Stephen
Dunbar-Johnson, President, International, of The New York Times Company, was
elected as Second Vice President of the Board’s Executive Committee. Mapula
Nkosi, editor-in-chief of Media24’s Daily Sun (Media 24 was appointed to the
board. Executives
elected to new Board terms or recently appointed to the Board are: Belle Tayler, Head of Brand & Acquisition of Nine in Australia, meanwhile, has been appointed as chair of INMA’s Young Professionals Committee, which oversees the association’s Young Professionals Initiative. Montego Pet Nutrition
expands executive committee team Montego Pet
Nutrition has expanded its leadership team with the appointment of
sales manager, Gavin Vermeulen, and marketing manager, Wilfred Cawood, to the pet food company’s
executive committee (exco). Vermeulen and Cawood are
passionate and driven managers who have both been with the company for nine
years, respectively overseeing the sales and marketing divisions and reporting
directly to managing director, Johan van Jaarsveld. In his new role on
Montego’s exco committee, Vermeulen will lead all sales teams and forecasting
both locally and internationally, whereas Cawood will use his knowledge and
experience in the pet food industry to drive the business forward with product
development and marketing across all seven brands. The Franchise Co appoints
Marcel Strauss as COO Pushing to grow market
share and to safeguard the sustainability of the business, The Franchise Co.
has appointed Marcel Strauss as its new chief operating officer (COO) for all
the group’s brands. Strauss has been with The
Franchise Co. for the last four years where he started as an executive manager
and worked his way up to his new role as COO. “He will help The Franchise Co.
to grow its footprint but will do so strategically and responsibly,” said Chris
van Zyl, CEO of The Franchise Co. Business moves Contact Media & Communications passes Spotong Magazine baton to 3S Media SpotongMagazine, South Africa’s township trade
magazine, has begun a new chapter under the ownership of 3S Media. The impact
of the pandemic on various industries as well as the publishing industry has
been devastating and Contact Media & Communications, like many businesses
globally, took time to reflect, evaluate and restructure the business with a
strategic focus on content creation and experiential marketing. Sean Press, CEO of
Contact Media & Communications, said, “We were given the opportunity to
pass the baton of one of our well-loved publications to a great company with
great people. As a company, we are very passionate about Spotong and what we achieved with a magazine
that did so much for the township community and ended up becoming such a big
part of entrepreneurship in SA.” Press said due to the
pandemic, the company was forced to forgo printing and go digital only, but
under the new ownership, Spotong will not only go back to print, but
will be available more frequently as a bi-monthly magazine under the guidance
of current editor, Charlene Heyburgh, who will continue steering the ship with
the current sales representatives and design team. MediaCom SA wins Mahindra account On 1 May, the partnership between one of
the country’s leading agencies, MediaCom South Africa, and one of the biggest
global automotive brands, Mahindra, kicked into gear. This followed an intense two-month
pitch process for Mahindra’s advertising business, which will include digital
paid media, performance content, analytics, UX, data strategy, CRM/CDP, martech
consulting, and optimising the consumer experience. As MediaCom’s first end-to-end digital client, this new-business win signifies more than an ever-expanding client portfolio: it marks the realisation of MediaCom’s vision for the future in SA and Africa, with a focus on driving digital transformation for Mahindra SA. SAMRO to collect royalties from Facebook, Netflix, and TikTok The Southern Africa Music Rights Organisation (SAMRO) has begun collecting royalties on behalf of its members from TikTok, Facebook and Netflix, after having concluded licensing agreements with the popular digital platforms. This is a major step forward towards adapting its licensing and royalty payments to the ever-changing technological landscape. “SAMRO is pleased to announce that we have entered into licensing agreements with short form video content social media platform TikTok, global social media powerhouse Facebook as well as the video streaming subscription platform Netflix that will benefit members,” said SAMRO chairperson, Nicholas Maweni.“Thanks to the conclusion of these binding agreements, SAMRO will be able to collect royalties on behalf of members, for all copyright-protected content that features on these platforms, with immediate effect.” Maweni said before the conclusion of these ground-breaking deals, platforms such as Facebook prohibited the use of copyright-protected content on their networks. MLA to launch Cape Town office Moonyeenn Lee & Associates (MLA), now the
largest talent agency on the African continent, has announced that it is
opening a new office in Cape Town. The launch of a representative office in the
heart of one of South Africa’s premier film destinations follows fast on the
heels of a recent announcement that the agency would be representing
screenwriters and directors alongside the leading talent already in the stable. Samantha Bernhardi, a seasoned agent based in Cape
Town, has decided to close her well-known business, Samantha Bernhardi Artists
Management, which she has nurtured over a period of 15 years, to join the MLA
team and lead the Cape Town office. She is a highly respected agent and much
loved by her actors and peers alike. As Associate Agent, Samantha will work
hand-in-hand with the MLA team in Johannesburg to ensure seamless opportunities
for its selected roster of multilingual and diverse talent. Said Nina Morris-Lee, CEO of MLA: “Opening a Cape
Town office just makes sense as does having Samantha on the ground representing
us. I felt that although single representation is the right way to work, it
was compromising our Cape Town actors and restricting our Johannesburg actors
from certain briefs that were not reaching us. I believe that all the actors we
represent, regardless of where they are located, have to be given the
opportunity to audition on all work available. I’m extremely excited about this
new chapter in the story of MLA’s success, and look forward to Samantha being
part of the team.” Eclipse Communications open Mauritius
office Eclipse Communications officially
opened the doors to its Mauritius operation, the agency’s first African office
outside of South Africa, today. The move forms
part of the agency’s drive to increase its footprint throughout Africa, due to
its clients continental needs. Managing partner and Africa lead of
Eclipse Communications, Cheryl Reddy, said the Eclipse Communications’
Mauritius launch was an extension of the agency’s full-service communications
offering and is part of its diversification and continued growth strategy on
the continent. The Mauritian agency will, very much like the South African
agency, offer multiple disciplines to clients such as Public Relations, Digital
Media and Eventing, with key focus on reputation management, 24/7 media
monitoring and social listening, influence and engagement and data driven
strategies and execution. The Mauritian operation will be headed
up by Aradhna Boodhoo-Laumond, recently appointed as communications director. Starbucks Southern Africa
invests in the future of South African Film and TV Starbucks Southern Africa
recently collaborated with BET Africa’s Isono actor, Chioma Umeala on a
#ChiomaXStarbucks initiative to help empower young women who aspire to be
actors by hosting them for coffee at Starbucks Melrose Arch. The young women
participated in the initiative by entering a competition held by Umeala on her
Twitter profile and they were selected as winners. The event was filled with
interesting conversations and words of encouragement from the likes of Elsie,
Chioma’s mother and Tendaiishe Chitima, an award-winning actor from Netflix’s
Cook Off film. “When it comes to this
industry you will receive more no’s than yes’s so you need to always hold your
opinion of yourself above everyone else’s. That self-worth and positive
attitude will carry you to your best self,” said Umeala to the young aspiring
women. BET
Africa partners with the KZN Film Commission to bring local stories to screen BET Africa
(DStv channel 129) and KZN Film Commission (KZNFC) have
formed a partnership to bring authentic local stories to screen for
audiences across Africa. The partnership highlights both organisations’
continued investment in local content, bringing audiences quality programming
and authentic storytelling that showcases the best of Africa’s creativity and
talent. This is part of  BET Africa’s commitment
to inspire excellence and elevate black culture and entertainment
through authentic storytelling that reflect the dreams and hopes of local film
makers. KZNFC’s mandate
is to grow and develop the film industry and position the province as a
strategic partner of choice in co-productions and be a formidable content hub
on the continent. “We truly value the collaboration
with the KZN Film Commission as
it enables us to continuously deliver on our commitment to local content and
talent. At the same time, create a space that connects both performers and
their audience in a more meaningful way which is truly reflective of South
Africa’s rich heritage and cultural diversity,” said Monde Twala, Senior Vice President and
General Manager at ViacomCBS Networks Africa and BET
International Peer Lead. “South Africa is such a diverse country.
We are spoilt for choice when it comes to talent and this partnership will
authentically connect audiences to performers and shine a spotlight on KZN as a
destination for film production.” concluded Twala. The World Health
Organization partners with Ogilvy | Social.Lab South Africa to launch global
campaign, ‘Vaccines Bring Us Closer’ Ogilvy Worldwide and
Ogilvy | Social.Lab South Africa have joined forces with the World Health
Organization to celebrate World Immunization Week. World Immunization Week
brings together a diverse coalition of partners to promote the use of vaccines
to protect people of all ages against disease. As part of the 2021
campaign, WHO, together with Ogilvy partners in South Africa, the UK and in the
USA, have created a campaign to increase trust and confidence around vaccines,
including routine immunization, and investment, to remove barriers to access. Ogilvy Social.Lab South
Africa was tasked to develop a total of 270+ assets for the campaign, giving it
a bold and impactful visual identity in the healthcare sector. As part of the campaign,
interactive social posts have been developed to encourage online engagement,
and for audiences to share their hopes for the future. The campaign is now
planned to be rolled out globally. Supa Quick reinforces offering with a new brand identity Tyre fitment centre group Supa Quick
has begun the journey of refreshing its brand offering to offer a more
sophisticated experience through a differentiated look and market position. Launching in May 2021,
around 200 fitment centres are expected to revamp to the new look-and-feel in
the next few years, from in-store design, corporate assets, processes and
philosophy. The designers behind the creative look-and-feel are Willem Viljoen
and Seyurie Naidoo, from A|Seylem DSGN CNSLTNCY. “In a highly saturated and
competitive market, our branding is our greatest asset in the fight for
customer recognition,” said Morne Dreyer, Supa Quick’s franchise sirector.
“Ultimately, our brand exists in the way our customers perceive us and each of
our dedicated team members must strive to be a brand ambassador, building a
lasting connection with our customers. Every customer who walks in needs to
know they can expect a certain, consistent standard of service.” KWV
unveils the new-look 20-year-old XXO potstill brandy The KWV XXO 20
potstill brandy has been given an exciting new look that unifies contemporary
elegance with the excellence of craftsmanship and decades-long maturation in
oak. The new look features a bold new XXO designation on the front of the
bottle, the result partly due to revised global classifications and
requirements for the category. Previously,
drinks older than 10 years were designated as XO but this was recently revised
to include a new XXO designation for brandies and cognacs aged for 14 years or
more.  Beyond the age designation, the XXO’s refreshed design adds
emphasis on the artistry that has defined KWV brandy since the 1920s, as well
as the company’s reputation as maker of the world’s best brandy. YouTube now available on
the DStv’s Explora Ultra YouTube is the latest
exciting addition to the award-winning* DStv Explora Ultra. DStv
subscribers can now watch YouTube, where every day people watch over a
billion hours of video, including music videos, short and documentary films,
live streams and video blogs. An impressive feature
available on the Explora Ultra is the Discovery And Launch protocol (DIAL),
which enables viewers to play YouTube videos from a second screen device (for
example, a mobile phone) directly onto the TV (the first screen device) without
pairing between devices. This makes it easier to watch shared or archived
content from a secondary device of choice. YouTube joins an
impressive list of third-party streaming service partners already available on
the 4K supporting Explora Ultra including Netflix and Amazon
Prime Video. The DStv
App and Showmax
can also be accessed via the APP button on the Explora Ultra remote control. Making moves NFVF calls for audio-visual specialists
to conduct monitoring and evaluation on PESP projects The
National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF), an agency of the Department of
Sport, Arts and Culture (DSAC), is seeking audio-visual industry specialists to
conduct monitoring and evaluation on all approved PESP projects. The
Presidential Employment Stimulus Programme (PESP) aims to stimulate employment
creation and job retention across sectors in the South African economy,
including the audio-visual sector. This comprehensive plan to stimulate new
employment and job retention in the South African audio-visual industry, came
about because of the devastating impact of COVID-19 on the economy. The Monitoring and Evaluation Consultants will assist the NFVF in monitoring the implementation of the successful projects, which were awarded grants in March/April 2021. Due consideration will be given to race, gender, disability, and geographic location in the appointment of the Consultants. A
motivation that clearly describes the applicant’s specific expertise and
qualifications related to the criteria above. A
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Certified
ID copy Applications
should be forwarded by e-mail to applications@nfvf.co.za. Opening date for submissions: 3 May 2021. Closing date for submissions:10 May 2021. Leaders from Diageo and Clear Channel France join speaker line-up for World Out of Home Organization European Forum on 18 May Diageo global media director, marketing, Isabel Massey and Clear Channel France Présidente Boutaïna Araki have joined the line-up of speakers for the World Out of Home Organization’s European Forum, hosted from London on 18 May. Massey will join diversity panel Doing Diversity in Out of Home (DDOOH) alongside moderator Annie Rickard of OOH Capital and Naren Patel of Geoprove. Patel is the founder of Media for All. Araki will present on how OOH can support sustainability. She leads Clear Channel’s numerous sustainability initiatives in France.  Concluding the one day virtual event will be a Programmatic Power Panel moderated by Mungo Knott, Commercial Platform and Product Director/Outdoor at UK media giant Global. Also on the panel are Adam Green, SVP GM Programmatic platforms at Broadsign, Hivestack CMO Nikki Hawke and JC Conti, CEO of VIOOH. Diary Applications across South
Africa, Kenya and Nigeria now open for the 2021 Facebook Community Accelerator
Program Facebook is inviting
community leaders from South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria to apply for the 2021
Facebook Community Accelerator Program—a programme that offers
participants training, mentorship and up to $50,000 USD in funds to invest in
an initiative that extends their community’s positive impact. The aim of the Community
Accelerator is to help leaders of Facebook communities to harness the power of
their community to turn ideas into action. The selected leaders will spend five
months learning from experts, coaches and a customised curriculum so they can
strengthen their community. Learn more and apply here.
You can find out more about the 2020 Community Accelerator cohort and
those who received additional funding here . Web Rangers SA 2021 MMA,
Facebook, Google SA, Film and Publication Board (FPB), MTN, DTPS and Diana
Schwarz Attorneys are inviting all SA learners between the ages of 12-17 years
to be part of the 2020 Web Rangers Programme. Web
Rangers is an international digital literacy programme designed to empower
young people to become digital citizens who know how to use the internet responsibly
and encourage their peers to do the same! If
you work with children or know a young person who is passionate about using the
internet for good, and would like to join hundreds of Web Rangers across the
world who have learnt to use the internet and social media to make their
country a better place. Apply here. 1st Commonwealth Women’s
Entrepreneurship Summit to be held 19 – 20 May in countdown to Commonwealth
heads of government meeting The inaugural
Commonwealth Women’s Entrepreneurship Summit is the first global event to focus
on women in emerging tech sectors. Taking place from the 19 to 20 May
2021, it is a two day online conference focusing on women’s entrepreneurship
featuring 50 speakers, 20 talks and 12 panel sessions. Targeting policy-makers, entrepreneurs, government agencies, entrepreneurship support organisations, funders and educational institutions, it aims to frame and feed into key international meetings including the G7 and CHOGM in June and the G20, UNCTAD and the Global Entrepreneurship Congress later in 2021. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.