Editorial and content production now make up a third of news organisations’ costs, according to WAN-IFRA’s recently published World Press Trends Outlook report. The costs of the news business have shifted during recent years as publishers have been adopting digital transformation as a core strategy. Twenty or even 10 years ago, nearly 50% of publishers’ costs came from print production, (particularly with newsprint), and distribution. This has since dropped to 21.4%. Instead, editorial and content production now make up a third of total costs. And while editorial making up the majority of investment is encouraging to see, the figure is actually lower than what typically accounted for the costs of producing news 10 or 20 years ago when it stood at around 35%. Much of that is due to the drastic cuts newsrooms have experienced in regions such as the US or the UK, for example, during the past decade (and more so recently). But it is also due to the increased investment in tech (data, product development) that works hand in hand with editorial and is often embedded in newsrooms, and has gained importance as publishers increasingly adopt reader revenue and audience-first strategies. However, as with every finding in World Press Trends, the market situation, regional factors, company culture, and strategic focus can, naturally, vary widely. Take the Globe and Mail in Canada. The company has been bullish on digital transformation for years now, but also innovating in print. Its cost structure reflects that. “Our printing, newsprint and distribution bill is 38 percent of total costs, and that’s significantly less than five years ago, when we made a determined drive to eliminate unprofitable delivery routes and make sure that we weren’t losing money on print,” said Globe and Mail CEO Phillip Crawley. “Our distribution costs as a national newspaper in a very large country with only 36 million people are probably higher than most. The other big difference is that our Editorial costs are only 20% of the total. That doesn’t count custom content which is a growing source of revenue, and is run out of Advertising. We have held the Editorial budget, for staff and freelance, at about the same level for the last several years. We have about 220 full time journalists. Twenty years ago that would have been 300-plus. “Otherwise our costs are similar to your chart, although our expanding workforce supporting data science and digital, including our Sophi analytics and automation products, means that category of expense is rising each year.” Here are some other key findings from the report (members can download the report for free here; non-members interested in purchasing the report can contact: customerservice@wan-ifra.org): That is just some of the findings. Naturally, World Press Trends delves into some of the key issues that are driving the industry. Our World Press Trends database features historical data dating from 2005-2017. We would like to thank our technology partner, Protecmedia, for their generous support of this project. We also appreciate the collaboration of our data partners, input from publishers and national associations, and all analysts who contributed to this report. Members can download the World Press Trends Outlook report for free here; non-members interested in purchasing the report can contact: customerservice@wan-ifra.org).  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.